
===== Page 2 =====

The Male Advantage
A step -by-step  blueprint for  reaching “Outlier Male ” status

1 in 4 men are happy according to studies. Which tells you everything you need to know
about the current state of male life . We’ve become weak both mentality and physically, yet
society still isn’t satisfied with our demise. We’re currently being  attacked from every angle
and coerced into living lives we’ve never dreamed of living, the moment we contest this,
we’re labelled as c hauvinistic  mansplaining  Harvey Weinstein s ympathisers . We’ve lost our
rites of passage, independence and ability to think for ourselves. The majority of modern
men are no more than empty shells living cookie cutter lives in order to please society.
James  Brown once said “This is a man’s world ”, in the modern era  we’re more like tenants
renting from our female landlords . We think we own the place, but at any time she could
shut the lights off and take back control . Although many men believe they’re powerfu l and
independent, the way their lives are buil t resemble female life goals.
Marriage, desire to become a  young  Father , mortgage with steady payments, monogamy,
no swearing in the house, relegated to the man cave (glorified garage)  and entire weekends
spen t furniture shopping. Anyone familiar with male biology will tell you these traits do not
resemble anything close to a “Man’s World”. Men may earn more, have higher natural
strength and testosterone, but we use this concoction to make sure the women in our  lives
achieve their goals at our detriment.
To see an example of this we can look at marriage. An unwritten law claims that men should
spend 3 months wages on an engagement ring! The vast majority of men have no desire to
get marri ed, they’re simply doing  it in order to retain access to sex. Yet in order to satisfy
the woman’s goals, we go along with the Disney charade and kiss goodbye to a quarter of
our yearly salary, post tax.  To put this into perspective, the average man at the time of
writing this ear ns roughly £30,000 per year. After tax this means you’re taking home just
over £2,000 per month. That means the unwritten law expects you to spend £6,000 on an
engagement ring. £6,000 invested in Bitcoin in 2010 would be worth £210m  today . For guys
celebrating their 10-year  anniversary this year  I apologise for that crippling fact.
This is the core element as to why 3 in 4 men are unhappy. Throughout our lives we throw
away major life changing and masculine opportunities in favour of female  driven goals. This
leads to a middle -aged  man working 12 hours per day in a job he hates , to sustain a life she
pressured him into , by using sex ual value  as a bargaining tool .
FREEDOMMMMM! As a man, there’s no equal. Having low bills, 100% ownership, cont rol
over your time, money and decisions is an unmatched way to achieve happiness. There’s a
reason why the book you’re reading was self -published and fully paid for by myself. Every
time a purchase is made, I receive 100% of the profits. My entire life has  been built this way.
I would rather miss out on short term bragging rights in exchange for long term happiness.

===== Page 3 =====

This goes for life, success, women, fitness and anything else we as men are faced with
tackling in order to sit on top of the social hierarchy.
This book is a blueprint for modern men all around the world, laying out the most fail proof
system for finding success ; in life, with women and in terms of male happiness.  I hope this
book is as influential to this and preceding generations of men , as Th ink & Grow Rich
(Napoleon Hill ) was in the last century.
For anyone familiar with my 1STMAN brand, all teachings within this book are a collection of
the articles, podcasts and videos millions of men have now watched and gained something
from , all compiled  into a life changing roadmap for men.
Let me teach you about the most important concept you’ll ever discover , the  single  belief
the entire 1STMAN brand has been built around since its inception as MSICOLLEGE …
The Male Advantage


===== Page 4 =====
								Contents
Part 1  (Mentality)
• The Early Struggle & Finding Your Male Purpose
• Any Man Can Go From a 1 to a 10
• Darwinian Male
• Using Male Aggression  & Testosterone
• The Calendar Effect
• No Shortage of Beautiful Women
• Don’t Chase , Upgrade
• The First £100k

Part 2 (Execution)
• Fitness is the Foundation of a Good Male Life
• The Perfect Male Body System
• Body Language & Mindset
• Orthotropics & Neck Exercises
• Sem en Retention  & Porn Addiction
• Take Major Risks Young & Plant Seeds
• Sacrifice your Weekends  & Ignore Women for Years
• Outlier Male Not Alpha Male

Part 3 (Navigation)
• 27 is the Most Dangerous Age for Men
• “The One” Doesn’t Exist
• Co-habiting Destroys Relationships
• The Truth About Marriage
• Men’s Lives Start at 30  – Stop Living Life in Reverse
• Welcome to the Male Advantage
• 29 to 40  is Only 11 Years
• 40 Years Old – You’re on Your Own  Champ



===== Page 5 =====

Part 1 Mentality
The Early Struggle & Finding Your Male Purpose

“Let me tell you something you already know. The world  ain't all sunshine and rainbows. It's
a very mean and nasty place, and I don't care how tough you are, it will beat you to your
knees and keep you there permanently if you let it. You, me, or nobody is  gonna hit as hard
as life”
(Rocky Balboa Rocky IV)

Some of you may recognise this quote from Rocky 6. I don’t think truer words have ever
been spoken…for men!  There’s a very distinct different between how men and women live,
which we’ll talk about in -depth later on in the book.  On the surface all you need to know is
that there’s no “get out of jail card” for men.
A woman can reach 18 and sit at the top of the social hierarchy by simply existing. An 18 -
year -old woman with a perfect body and a model  face wh o’s never stepped foot in a gym
and eats junk food all day , can marry a billionaire due to equal value. On -top of this, if things
aren’t going as planned for a woman, she can simply get pregnant. Suddenly overnight she
has a purpose and a man is required t o provide. Family members, friends, society in general
deem it totally acceptable for her to claim the job title “Mother” and spend the next 4 years
raising the child. Once that child goes to school,  she has the option of getting pregnant again
and again a nd the pressure to take care of this growing family will fall on the man or men
involved.  On the other -hand a “stay at home Dad” gets ridiculed by men and the friends and
family of the woman”, often labelled “weak”  or “soft” .
As men, we have no shortcuts, no excuses, no get out of jail cards that we can cash in if
things aren’t going well. We reach 18 and the story is wildly different  to that of our female
counterparts . We’re skinny, spotty, awkward, broke, unemployable, weak minded, thirsty,
you name it we’re bad at it. A man’s value at 18 is near the bottom of societies ladder.
Women see you as immature and other men see you as a n inexperienced  child .
We begin our adult lives with no purpose, no real direction. Unlike women who know they
want to  get married, have children and live in a 4 -bedroom house in the country, men are
faced with the challenge of navigating the rough terrain known as our late teens and 20’s. A
12-year  period that will either make you or break you depending on your actions a nd
decisions.
If things aren’t going well by 25, having kids will only exacerbate things. If things aren’t going
well by 28 no one will want to marry you. If things aren’t going well by 30 no rich woman is
stepping in to buy you a house and a car in exchan ge for sex. Men are hilariously positioned
in their early life and there’s no shortcut to fix this. The only solution is to grind and learn

===== Page 6 =====

how to be proactive vs being a  complainer. The majority of people are born poor. If you’re a
man without an exceptio nal talent , (ie; LeBron James  type skills ) then your  route to
success/a good male life is going to be pretty similar to the man who bought this book
before you and the one who purchased this book after you.
The entire purpose of man’s early life is to grin d, create, learn and to stay in the trenches for
as long as their willpower will allow, and then a little longer  to make sure it’s cemented .
By doing this, you give yourself the best possible platform/foundation for a successful male
life. The men who reco gnise that their teens and 20’s are worth trading for their 30’s, 40’s
and 50’s will forever rule the world.
This is the catalyst for male depression. Most men will arrive at 18 full of optimism believing
that by 25 they’re going to be a millionaire with 2 0 models on their hitlist. Truth is, the
majority of men will arrive at 30 having only just ma de some level of progress. As wrong as
this will sound to men under 25 who are currently full of optimism, the men 30 and over will
implore you to follow this prediction . This doesn’t mean you cannot be successful young;  it
also doesn’t mean you shouldn’t try. What you should take from this, is to expect hardship
and to make patience your greatest weapon.
Those men who spend their 20’s chasing get rich quick schemes, women, parties and other
naïve time -wasting exploits, will suffer in an amplified manner in their 30’s. If lessons are
not learnt and their 30’s follow a similar pattern , then the consequences aren’t worth
thinking about.
Male depression and incre ased suicide rates haven’t happened by accident. As life pressures
increase and competition becomes more fierce year after year, the desire to “keep up with
the Joneses” traps men in a viscous cycle of pretending to be fulfilled, until honesty hits
them li ke a ton of bricks. A young man must be willing to sacrifice the years that everyone
else abuses and takes for granted in order to reveal the true hidden treasure  of being born a
man .
Throughout the remaining pages of this book, that hidden treasure will b e revealed to you.
Some may have realised it already; others may find this wisdom on the final page.
Regardless of when it hits you, your life will never be the same again.

“We've all been raised on television to believe that one day we'd all be millionai res,
and movie gods, and rock stars. But we won't. And we're slowly learning that fact. And we're
very, very pissed off.”
(Tyler Durden, Fight Club)




===== Page 7 =====

Any Man Can Go From a 1 to a 10

“You cannot control the cards you’re dealt, just how you play the hand”.
(Randy  Pausch)

Whether you’re born 6ft 4, Swedish, the body of Hercules and a trunk only a horse would be
proud of, or born with none of that, the game still has the same rules. Naturally the man
born with everything and more will have an easier g o of things, especially in the early days,
but life really is a game of use it or lose it.
A man born with a perfect body who drinks, smokes and eats junk food, isn’t going to look
as good as a man with an average body who dedicates 10 years to the gym and  clean eating.
Of course, there’s nothing stopping the good -looking guy doing the exact same thing, and
under these circumstances it would be hard to compete. However why would you be
competing? In order to have a good male life, you don’t have to make sur e everyone else
has a terrible one. The fact there are better looking men than you, taller men than you or
men with bigger muscles than you , are irrelevant to your own life. Everyone’s journey is
independent to them, and as the quote says above; how you pl ay the hand.
The genetic lottery has been the bane of many a man’s existence. So much so, they wallow
in their own self -pity and never attempt to make the best of the cards they were given. This
tends to lead to an unfulfilled life where they blame luck or God being against them. These
are the guys you see at 50 sat i n front of a TV disgruntled and telling everyone else “there’s
no point” or “she’s out of your league”.
Becoming this man is the ultimate failure for your existence. The cards you were dealt do
not define you. Due to many self -improvement methods any man can go from a 1 to a 10
with enough patience and hard work. Throughout this book you will come to realise that
your fate is far from set in stone. Regardless of genetics, financial means or surrounding
opportunities, any man can rise up via the methodology  of aggregation of marginal gains.

The Aggregation of Marginal Gains

A term coined in cycling by Team Sky. The concept follows an easy system. Instead of
attempting to make large and unrealistic improvements, improve hundreds of components
by a single pe rcentage point in order to create an accumulation effect. In other words; The
Aggregation of Marginal Gains.
It’s unrealistic to suggest that one could grow by 5 inches via self -improvement we all know
this. But wearing a shoe with a 1 -inch heel is a welco med strategy for nearly every man on

===== Page 8 =====

planet Earth, including the tall ones. It may be out of one’s reach to get an 8 pack and a
gigantic chest, but hitting the gym 5 days per week and achieving a well above average
frame is within any man’s grasp.
The idea  here isn’t to be the best at everything, the idea is to become well -rounded and
multi -faceted. Should you focus on one area of lack, then this area will torment you for the
rest of your life. Millions of men around the globe past, present and I expect future, will
bemoan their height , as if it’s the only thing that matters and we’re all Giraffe’s fighting to
eat from the higher branches to achieve mating rights  and basic survival .
The reality is to the contrary. A man born as a perceived 1 out of  10 can do the following
step by step and achieve a 10 status in the eyes of the wider public. (Note many of the
steps/unfamiliar terms mentioned will be explained later in this book).

1 / 10
Gym and clean eating for 4 years, adding lean muscle and an ove rall size increase along with
a low body fat percentage. This individual now has a great body and a more defined face.
Low body fat is pretty much the main key to having an attractive male face. Anything under
10% bf will rank you up in the top 5% of men  for facial attraction . Add a large frame and the
combination is game changing.
5 / 10
The above step alone will rank any man around a 5 out of 10  regardless of looks or other
flaws. If ¾ men are overweight in the modern era, an in -shape man will comfortably  sit at a
5, or in other words average.
From here a man can begin to broaden his self -improvement range. Your body is not the
only thing that can be improved. Orthotropics and neck/submental exercises will give you a
facelift like you’ve never seen. These concepts will be explained in depth later in this book.
For the time being you will have to trust that this will turn any 5 into a 7.
Why not higher if you have face and body? If you were a woman,  you’d already be a 10, but
as we all know men are very much ranked based on qualities outside of the physical. Our
ability to provide is seen in the eyes of a woman , as sought out if not more so, than being
attractive.
7 / 10
7 out of 10, the golden zone.  This is where your life will dramatically change. In fact,  later in
this book , is an entire chapter regarding the subject of 7/10.
It’s now time to move away from the physical and focus on becoming a well -rounded man .
A successful and by nature rich man, will always be ranked highly on the social hierarchy, by
both men and women. Achieving success/any level of wealth status will elevate a man by
minimum 1 point and in extreme levels of wealth, up by  3. A 7/10 millionaire will suddenly
become a 10 in the ey es of women. A 5/10 man making 6 figures a year will become a 7/10.

===== Page 9 =====

A man making a good living enough to provide for a family perhaps £50k per year will be
seen as an option, mature, having his shit together! Nothing to write home about but it may
give him  an added point in the eyes of lower value women, and in the eyes of high value
women he simply won’t lose any points, which is something within itself.  The average man
may not possess the creative abilities required to reach billionaire or deca -millionair e status,
but hard work and grit will take you far enough. Any man has £100k to £250k per year
within his grasp if he’s willing to work for it and make the necessary sacrifices. A 7/10
making £250k per year will instantly be viewed as a winner within the e yes of men and
women alike, achieving the noteworthy score of 8 or 9/10 depending on the judge.  A
woman who has been exposed to high level men will see you as an 8, the majority of the
general public will see you as a 9, which is a very good life if you we re to stop there.
9 / 10
How does one reach the upper limit of being a 10/10? It’s done 1 of 2 ways. Be a 6ft 4
handsome millionaire with a perfect body. Or, more likely for the rest of us; Follow the steps
laid out above and add the mental  and external  qualities.
Sense of humour, confidence, charisma, intelligence, cultured, skilled  at a craft , the list goes
on.
This isn’t to say you cannot deploy a mixed bag. One could plausibly be confide nt, well
dressed, funny, positive, a leader, wealthy and caring and achieve a 10 in the opinion of
many women and men. However, for universal 10 status, the physical traits have a
consistent impact.
It’s important not to put too much importance on the physical, but at the same time to be
aware of its importance for opp ortunities/ease of life.
10/10

You see, which ever starting point you are positioned in life, there’s a way to climb the
ladder. It’s not about being the first to reach the top, it’s about making sure you push
yourself as close as your limitations will al low. Why suffer with a bad hand when you can
play  to its full potential and make your life better than it currently is?
A female life is like betting on your horse to be the fastest in a flat straight line short
distance race. If it’s not then other strate gies must be deployed. This is why so many women
are opting for surgery, they’ve drawn the same conclusion I have here. A man’s life however
is more like a long -distance  race with fences, corners, hills, downhills, varied terrains, water
jumps and more. If  you’re not the fastest, no problem, there’s plenty more obstacles to
tackle that will better suit your skillset. A tall good -looking man who lacks 2 brain cells to rub
together, will fall flat on his face in the game of life if he were to do nothing about  it. Income
will be hard to acquire, riches will always be a distant dream, he will always need and have a
boss telling him what to do and social skills will prevent him from landing a top-level
partner , who may be  looking for qualities outside of the phys ical or as well as.

===== Page 10 =====

Social Value

Social value may be a term you’ve heard before but never truly understood. The one thing
you must remember when it comes to social value, is that women know theirs and they’ll
use it to their advantage. Women will only ever date up or on their own level. I  repeat,
women will only ever date up or on their level.
Knowing this simple fact alone will lay out your game plan clearer than you ever saw it
before. If you’re not attracting the women you find attractive, then the system works
perfectly, you’re simply not on their level and 100% not above them. Social value is a
beautiful measurement for men , it’s a radical candour that tells you exactly what you need
to know  whilst providing support for progression . We currently live in a world that will tell
you how s pecial you are when you fail. Social value on the other hand will show you your
black and white society positioning and outline as to why things aren’t going your way
socially and relationally .

Below is a breakdown of modern day (2020/2021) social value.


===== Page 11 =====


Let’s break this down and explain what each block means in relation to the next and your
own position/navigation of the hierarchy.
General Public
This 50% block is everyone you walk past on the street and don’t take notice of, space fillers
if you would. It’s likely many men read ing this are in this block, but don’t worry because this
is only temporary if you have the slightest level of ambition. Mr  and Mrs average and
everyone below sit within this block and tend to stick together. These are the people who
focus on marriage, babies and mortgages like their lives depend on it. They marry young,
they obsess over finding the one and their entire value revolves around being wanted by
someone/anyone. The women in this block at 1’s to 5’s and they worship celebrities,
handsome men and anything unobtainable to them. They’re the type of people you see at a
One Direction concert. The men in the general public  block are unambitious, happy to take
the backseat in life, disregard their physical health and see women as prizes rather than
equals.  They will worship beautiful women and likely follow them on social media . These are
the men funding OnlyFans.
Good Looki ng Men
There’s a giant misconception when it comes to good looking men. Most men believe that
these guys sit at the top of society and can get any woman they want. In reality, good
looking men sit very low down on the social hierarchy.
Good looking men can  sleep with any woman under a 5 with effortless ease. He will also
hold complete power over any men that are ranked 5 or under. Occasionally this guy will
sleep with a 6 or a 7 and spends most of his time chasing these types of women. In the past
I’ve spok en about “The Rarity Scale” . A good -looking man is a prime victim of local rarity.
The majority of good -looking men are hardly David Gandy, instead they’re good looking on a
local scale. The local people; the general public block worship them as if they’re  kings. This
inflates their ego and makes them think they’re on top of the rarity scale. The women above
them at a 6/7, the good -looking men see these women as 9’s and 10’s because locally they
are. On a global scale to a well -travelled and successful man,  these women are 6’s and 7’s
because he’s experienced real 10’s. But the majority of good -looking men have no idea what
goes on outside of their little micro -bubble.
This is also why good -looking men rarely succeed, because they’re too distracted chasing 6 ’s
and 7’s every day of their life labelling themselves a player. In reality they’re mocked by the
men who sit higher up the hierarchy who have 6’s and 7’s chasing them.  The men who sit
higher up the hierarchy have figured out, in order to attract the high est-level  women,  you
ignore them, work on your own life and like magic , they chase you.
6’s & 7’s Women
Women in this block have a pretty good life. They’re not worshipped like 10’s and therefore
can get on with their life without being stopped or DM’d 50 times per minute. A 6/7 woman,

===== Page 12 =====

can attract any man globally, especially a 7. Even celebrities will sleep  with these women
given the right opportunity. They usually end up with rich men who didn’t take care of
themselves physically, or men with physical rarity but little to average wealth. 6’s and 7’s
know that outlier males and the highest -level men will lik ely sleep with them/date them for
a while before moving on. The 6’s and 7’s enjoy their time in the limelight but know their
window of opportunity is limited. These women are coupled up and pregnant before 28
with a man who has regional rarity. He may be a  Doctor with a yearly salary of £100k and an
average body.  This would place him at the bottom of the rich men bracket as £100k per year
isn’t glorified like it used to be. The people below the rich men bracket will see £100k like
it’s millions, which is wh y this man can have an average body, little ambition, a lack of well -
roundedness and still be viewed as a top -level man.  These women may also end up with a
gym junk ie with great genetics and a modest job. A jacked PT earning £40k per year or a 6ft
5 accoun tant.
Physical Rarity
This bracket applies to both men and women.  These people are worshipped by most of the
world but are lacking the well -rounded qualities to go higher. Many people in this block are
sexual fantasies for either gender. It may be a male f itness model with a perfect body, a
male model with the most ridiculous angles and features, a woman with a fantastic ass, DD
boobs or the face of an angel.
Whatever your preference there will be someone within this bracket that drives you crazy. A
woman w ith an average face, poor job, bad personality but a ground -breaking hip to waist
ratio will sit within this block and have an unbelievable life. All men will be willing to sleep
with her, with rich men chasing her for marriage.
The physical rarity block i s essential for all men. Getting rich and becoming a well -rounded
man is tough, but achieving the perfect body is something we can all do within 3 -5 years
with hard work. Once a man achieves physical rarity it’s like a cheat code , hence why it’s
different in the diagram . A man who was sat in the general public block instantly rises above
good looking men, 6’s and 7’s and is now an equal to women with physically rare features.
He ranks above good -looking  men due to two components, one dominance, two when any
man gets in shape his face looks better, therefore as a combination he ranks higher than a
good -looking  skinny guy.
Rich Men
This bracket is small but it stretches wide. It could be from £100k per yea r up to £ 100m per
year. The men sitting at the bottom of the rich men block are praised by society, but richer
men see them as the general public and 8’s and 9’s and 10 women see these men as
average. Rich men are just that, rich and nothing else. Of cours e, they’re smart, focused,
driven etc, but they’re physical health and appearance isn’t great and they rely heavily on
their money.
These men will laugh at the good -looking men who chase 6’s and 7’s, yet they will do the
exact same thing when it comes to 8 ’s, 9’s and 10’s as they see these women as the final

===== Page 13 =====

piece of the puzzle/a trophy. Why else do men get rich right?  Rich men fall short of the
highest brackets for a few reasons but can comfortably reach these heights if they were
simply able to dedicate a  few more years to personal growth.
Outlier Males
My favourite block because it holds the best of both worlds. Celebrities and billionaires have
the stress of fame to deal with, outlier males can have the perfect life and stay under the
radar. An outlier m ale is a man that’s well -rounded and has mastered the big three; success,
assets and fitness.  A wealthy man, with a great life setup and an attractive body is able to
land any woman he wants.  Of course,  he has more qualities, but the big three cement his
place.
A lot of rich guys believe their wealth is the key, but being 60 years old finally making it and
expecting 10’s to now sleep with you is insane. This is why it’s so important to use your late
teens and 20’s to build something great. An outlier male i s someone that enters the male
advantage window 30 -50 with youth, appearance, wealth and life setup all in place.
Alternatively, it can be a wealthy man with high level intelligence, youth, knows 5 languages
fluently and travels often. This example of a we ll-rounded man may not be physically
attractive, but collectively he’s a standout/outlier within the male population. The idea is to
increase your rarity to the point where it’s extremely hard to replicate or replace you. This
strategy as a man, will enabl e you to land a wide range of beautiful women, and other men
will naturally see you as a leading figure in society.  The big three are simply universally
accepted and make it easier to achieve outlier male status.
Famous People & Billionaires
Sports stars, actors, people with wealth beyond what some small countries can achieve. It’s
hard to compete with these people as they’re put on a pedestal by the media.
When there’s literally a highlight reel of your last game, or ESPN talking about how much
money you make, it’s impossible not to be respected and chased by all.
Becoming famous or a billionaire shouldn’t be your aim, an Outlier Male life is far more
rewarding. If your success takes you to billionaire level then congratulations, but striving for
it might see you work your whole life and die without ever experiencin g any enjoyment.
An outlier male may be worth £30m, have all the toys, a 10 on his arm, the perfect body ,
health , takes weekends off and has 6 holidays per year. I’d take that life over 18 -hour days 7
days per week and die of a heart attack at 59.
The pro blem with today’s society is we play a game of “either/or with extremities. Example:
“Would you rather be rich or happy”
Happiness and wealth, although not tied together directly, are also far from polar opposites.
A logical fallacy is; Money doesn’t make you happy, therefore  a rich man cannot be happy.
The two are not opposites of one another, they are not hot or cold so why have we tied
them together as a society?

===== Page 14 =====

Wealth and unhappiness are easy to find, spend money on flashy garbage, spen d all day
workin g and disregard your health. Your hormones will quickly tap you on the shoulder and
deliver depression to your door. In contrast being a successful entrepreneur with £30m in
the bank, a great family life, perfect health, holiday homes around the world, bil ls under
control and zero stress, is a great life. Waking up each day without a boss, working when
you want, there’s certainly no unhappiness there.
This is why outlier males have such rewarding lives. The world is a playground and nothing is
off limits ex cept for the biggest toys such as a 200m yacht or a sports franchise, but who
cares when you can have anything else?  Of course, you could still be a billionaire outlier
male, but most billionaires have little to no time for anything but work. Look at Elon Musk,
lifting weights would make him the perfect man, but he simply doesn’t have time.
Money is great, youth is great, fitness is great, intelligence is great, a nice house is great,
outlier males simply build a life that includes multiple features rather than taking one to the
absolute max and disregarding everything else.
Social Hierarchy Summary
1. Become an outlier male if you’re ambitious and motivated
2. Get the perfect body and achieve physical rarity if you’d rather an easy climb and life
with multiple benefits



===== Page 15 =====

Darwinian Male

“It is not the strongest of the species that survives, it is the one that is the most adaptable to
change”
(Charles Darwin )

The world isn’t what it was even 10 years ago and further change is coming at an
accelerated s peed. To summarise the theory of the Darwinian Male, a term I coined roughly
6 years ago to describe the need for daily male self -improvement, we must take a look at
the subheading I created to pair with the concept.
“What was once praised is now expected”
There was a time when a man’s surname or title was enough to secure him a Wife. In the
roaring 20’s a guy having a car was a game changer, it signified immense wealth. During the
90’s a 6-figure salary sent shockwaves throughout the neighbourhood . Today h owever , a Dr
making 6 figures per year  and driving a Range Rover is completely ignored by beautiful 18-
year -old women making £100k per month on OnlyFans from their bedrooms.
Let’s put this into perspective:
100 years ago, wrongly, a woman’s only chance of achieving her goals was to marry a man.
Let’s say, that although the woman was intelligent, creative and hardworking, it was the
man who went to work and she was told to become a good housewife. Let’s say the man
worked at a factory, mid -level and did okay  for himself. For the woman he would be a great
catch. She could get her own home, start a family and be a respected woman in the
community.
Fast forward to 2020 and the picture is wildly different. Let’s use the same guy, he’s mid -
level working in a facto ry doing okay for himself. The woman 100 years into the future, has
been to University, has an active gym schedule, invests in stocks and has a mortgage. She
gets employed at the same company the man is at as his manager. She makes double what
he makes, she’s more educated than him, has her own house so doesn’t need a man, and
due to the gym, she looks fantastic. The man is obsessed with her, she’s his dream woman.
100 years ago, they were married with children and he held all the value. In today’s world
she wouldn’t look at him twice, has thousands of better options and she holds all the power
over him.
Let’s do a second scenario:
50 years ago, an 18 -year -old joins the workforce. He’s bossed around, laughed at, paid far
less than the senior staff an d his opinions fall on deaf ears. After 2 2 years of grinding up the
corporate ladder and boot licking, he finally gets that corner office and reaches the highest

===== Page 16 =====

levels of management. At 40 years old he feels accomplished and makes enough money to
be consi dered wealthy for his time period.
Fast forward to 2020 and the same career trajectory just isn’t needed. An 18 -year -old can
bypass 22 years of graft and anyone older than him by making £100k per month from home
on the internet. The 40 -year -old with the corner office is making £80k per year, less than the
18-year -old makes in 30 days. Due to  the hard work and long days, the 40 -year -old looks
terrible. Overweight, stressed, tired, you name it, life simply isn’t optimal. The 18-year -old
has youth, time, fitness, health, far more money and the opportunity to make more a lot
quicker. The young ma n has better access to women, he’s celebrated by other men and life
is treating him better.
The point I’m trying to make with these two scenarios is; the game has changed and
competition is fierce. We’re not just competing with other men anymore; we’re now
competing with women for the same jobs we used to rely on to help us sleep with her.
We’re not just competing with men our own age anymore; we’re competing with 22 -year -
old tech wizards who can make our yearly salary in an afternoon at half our age.
There  was a time when men were protected. A small amount of effort was all it took in
order to achieve a good life. By simply being a man, you were considered attractive, in
shape, successful, secure, intelligent, the list goes on. The system men once relied up on has
crumbled and our insecurities are beginning to show. As I mentioned in the first chapter, life
isn’t handed to men, it’s not easy, however it used to be. Men are struggling to adapt
because there’s no blueprint. This is the first time in history a m an aged 35 could plausibly
be considered a loser and get outranked by a single 30 -year -old woman or by an 18 -year -old
kid with zero work experience or qualifications.

What’s the Answer?

It’s not the strongest, it’s the most adaptable. The men who can na vigate this new terrain
will naturally come out on top. Those who are pre -set in old ways will be left behind and
piled  up with the ever -growing  incel population.
Young women today are murdering men on the scoreboard. It’s not uncommon to find a
woman livi ng in the city with a £100k per year job, her own home, all designer outfits, a
perfect body, a beautiful face, highly intelligent, takes 3 holidays per year and 50k Instagram
followers, receiving 100 DM’s per day, 5k likes per post and 20k views per video . Not that
the metrics are important but you can only imagine how large her ego is/how she sees
herself by way of social value. The woman described may be 25, which makes men who are
also 25 think they have a chance, only to be completely ignored in favour  of more
established men or multi -millionaire athletes.
The answer is to evolve as men. No longer can we sit by and believe that just because we’re
men , sex and options will simply fall into our lap, along with job opportunities and rubbing

===== Page 17 =====

shoulders with high societies big wigs , purely due to the fact we have a penis. If you’re not
trying to self -improve on a daily basis, in the current strong tides you will fall behind at a
rapid pace.  This should include an array of regions. We should aim to become renaissance
men. The original outlier males. Someone who achieves greatness across a range of topics.
For a  modern man that should be; fitness, health, intel ligence, wealth, assets, social skills,
body language, focus, mental toughness, daily structure, removing bad habits, introducing
good habits, becoming more cultured, dressing better, improved personal hygiene, well -
travelled, a 2nd language under your bel t, the list goes on. This should give you some idea of
the new game. The men who follow this advice will be rewarded in years to come, those
who fail to recognise the changing of the guards, will be chopped off.
What was once praised is now expected . Never  forget it!

Straight 7 System

One way in which a man can become a Darwinian Male, who stays ahead of the curve and
reaches Outlier Male status, is by following the Straight 7 System.
The S7S revolves around an easy -to-follow  concept. A man doesn’t have t o be perfect in all,
or even one single area for that matter. Instead,  he should attempt to reach a 7 out of 10
status in either all, or as many as possible areas of his life, in order to create an
accumulation effect.
Some of you may be familiar with the decathlon. 10 events, all different in qualities required
to excel, a true test of a man’s physical abilities across the board.  One may become a
decathlon athlete if they’re a failed sprinter who’s too heavy built, perhaps a long jumper
with a lightening r un-up but the spring just falls short of the elite guys. These talents can
then be transferred into various events which makes that individual the perfect all-rounder .
The man who wins the decathlon isn’t necessarily the quickest, the biggest, or the highest
jumper, but it helps to be in the top 5 across all the forementioned traits. The most
consistent man tends to come out on top due to the points system.  If you win an event you
get the most points, with each lower placing being rewarded less points,  it’s very simple.
Plausibly, a decathlon gold medallist may fail to win any event. They may finish in the top 5
across all 10 events and have the highest accumulative points total.  Men should target this
strategy when it comes to their own lives. It doesn ’t matter if you’re not the tallest, the
strongest, have the largest penis, are born with wealth or the smartest guy in every room
you walk into. The most important quality is versatility. Let’s use fitness models as an
example. I have a large amount of re spect for the fitness influencers of this world, steroids
or not, they’ve actually had to put years of work into what they do, to achieve the results.
However, with the industry being very oversaturated, only the top 1% are making serious
money  from doing what they love. If a guy has and continues to dedicate his entire life to

===== Page 18 =====

fitness, yet makes a modest wage, then you would perhaps draw the conclusion that his
time wasn’t well spent.
Being the most muscular guy in the room is great, it certainly draws som e eyes. But if you’re
living in your Mum’s basement and can’t afford to pay your own phone bill, then it’s hard to
make a case for this guy being someone to aspire to, or someone women would want to be
with. On the other hand, should a man tackle life with  a more diverse approach, the results
will not only be more beneficial but they’ll have greater longevity.


===== Page 19 =====

Using Male Aggression & Testosterone

We now live in a world where terms like “mansplaining” and “micro aggression” are
somehow normal and not cons idered sexist. This makes zero sense to me as the terms “too
emotional” or “it must be that time of month” are widely frowned upon as being
unacceptable , although both are linked to gender biology . It seems as though double
standards are leading the activi sm charge as always  due to extremists .
Something you’ve been told since you were a little boy is; “Be good, don’t fight, sit and
listen, do as you’re told.”
However once a man reaches adult life, he soon finds out that these traits don’t get you
anywhere. He learns that nice guys finish where they started  and trying to fit in just makes
you more of an outcast as you try to keep up with political correctness.
The men who have figured life out have understood that winners  lead and follow ers wait for
instructions. Ask yourself, if society wants you to be a respectable man, why does every
CEO/billionaire curse every 3rd word off camera? Why do we have #metoo yet 6 2% of
women have a rape fantasy? If being a good boy is the way to go, why in scientific studies
do men with higher testosterone always get the woman and come out on top in social
situations?
This isn’t to take away from being a good person, and it’s certa inly not to suggest men
should rape/ignore #metoo, as what Harvey Weinstein did was terrible. What I’m suggesting
is; the world isn’t this cute little innocent place you were made to believe it was. Judges are
corrupt, women love filthy sex, Wives with ang el faces cheat, businesses like Facebook
destroy the competition in their first year, men punch other men, paedophilia is covered up
by our Governments on a daily basis and everyone from Michelle Obama to Tom Hanks
knew about Harvey Weinstein, look it up, Michelle Obama called him a “Wonderful Human
Being” and a “Good friend”. I don’t know about you guys, but if one of my friends was doing
this, I’d likely know about it.
The people telling you to control your aggression and that testosterone is bad, are the  same
people rioting if they don’t get their own way. You’re being controlled like a puppet; the
only reason people ever stop you doing something beneficial is so they can have an
advantage over on you. From my experience in the workplace and entrepreneurs hip, the
reason men tend to earn more than women is due to work rate. I am sure there are female
sharks who would slice any man’s throat in a business sense given the chance. But from my
experience, the men will work 16 -hour days and make business calls on  the drive home,
followed by an entire weekend of work, just to go back at it again on the Monday. The
women I’ve been around in a 9 to 5 sense and entrepreneurial sense haven’t worked like
this. In any office, the women leave at 5pm and the men leave afte r 6pm – 10pm depending
on their drive. Very rarely have I seen a woman remain in the office past 5pm unless the y’re
asked to do so. The same goes for weekends, even female entrepreneurs take the weekends
off. From my personal experience which cannot be cha llenged as its factual, women prefer

===== Page 20 =====

moderate success to the extent that they’re comfortable, not super rich. Men would rather
make 1 million per year in order to flex/satisfy his ambition. I would say in conclusion men
are more relentless.
So why have I just shitted on women here? No other reason than female s have lower
aggression and thus testosterone. This wasn’t to show that women are lesser or weaker
than men, I actually believe due to the HR mindset women have, more women would make
better CEO’s and business owners if they could get past the initial hurdle. This hurdle is
sacrificing clothes, hair, makeup, nights out, social circle, relationships, “me time”, holidays
and other luxuries in order to have a better life in the long term. Instead, this was  to show
how beneficial high testosterone and aggression can be to a male life.
Now this doesn’t mean walking around with a mean look on your face and fighting everyone
who moves. Still be a good person and treat everyone with respect, but use your aggress ion
and testosterone in a competitive sense.
Ask yourself, why does the new sales guy stay in the office until 10pm and re -enter the
following day at 6am, when the female secretary coasts in at 9am and leaves at 5pm? It
comes down to simple biology; The yo ung salesman wants to fuck the secretary and realises
his status and financial worth will open that door. Or so he thinks, it’s not always
guaranteed. But the important part here is that his testosterone and natural masculinity is
driving him to work harde r, make more sales and impress a female/rise above other men.
This weapon, we as men possess, is enormously underrated. It can enable us to bulldoze our
way through life in an unstoppable manner, yet we’re listening to social justice warriors and
taking in structions from 16-year -old college girls with zero life experience about how to live
our lives.
It’s time for men to wake up and understand that high testosterone, masculinity,
assertiveness and other traits are keys to success, financial gains, attractin g women and
rising up the social hierarchy. The reason you’re told it’s not, is so the game becomes fairer.
Men have dominated for centuries due to this fact. Granted we abused this, and overly
abused our physicality, but men will always rule/lead/take cha rge if their testosterone is
high. If you don’t think this is true, just look at all world leaders in multiple fields.
Politics: Putin, Obama and Trump
Sports: LeBron James, Ronaldo and Usain Bolt
Entrepreneurs: Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg and Jeff Bezos

Those last 3 may make you question everything I’ve just said. Many men believe in order to
have high T -levels and to be a leader, you need to look like The Rock. In reality any man of
any size or proportions can access this major benefit, but have been brai nwashed into
thinking they shouldn’t.

===== Page 21 =====

No one should aspire to be Hitler, but this tiny, out -of-shape man struck fear into the entire
world and convinced the entire country of Germany to go to war. This is the sheer power of
aggression and testosterone used  incorrectly, but it displays what effect a man can have on
those around him with these traits.
We have to forget the notion that aggression and testosterone is a negative. An old
colleague of min e once worked with Steve Jobs and actually designed the dial  on the iPod.
He told me that Steve Jobs was an animal. Every other word was a curse word, he was a
savage and always got his own way. Once he told me a story regarding contacting a supplier
and asking for a cheaper price. After 10 failed attempts, where S teve got each member of
staff to go and negotiate over the phone, he finally made the call himself. After 2 minutes of
shouting and screaming he came out and told the team he got the deal.
People see Steve Jobs as this old man who wears turtlenecks, but I would guarantee the
man had well -above average testosterone levels and used this to full effect. His aggression is
unrivalled, and many have said similar stories about Mark Zuckerberg. Successful men know
what they want, they’re aggressive and ruthless. Un successful men who struggle to attract
women and get treated like dirt, are weak minded and willing to let others control their
lives. Never be afraid to speak up, demand what you want and use your natural masculinity
in order to align yourself with your g oals.

===== Page 22 =====

The Calendar Effect

Have you ever woken up on a Sunday and immediately realised you can take the day off?
How about getting to 5pm and believing that the day’s  work has been complete? What
about having a life goal you’d like to accomplish, but refusing to start until January 1st?
This is the Calendar Effect .
This effect holds you back in life more than anything else you know. In order to move
forward and achieve  Outlier Male status you have to understand the true timeline of life.
You’re born and you die, everything in between is a straight line of consistent speed that
will not stop for anyone. When you’re taking the weekend off life continues on. When you
wait for January 1st even though it’s September, life relentlessly burns through 4 months of
your existence. It’s a scary thought, and it somewhat removes any enjoyment. However, this
emphasises the importance of frontloading  lives work in order to provide free dom to later
years.

Man -Made

You must understand for mentality purposes the trickery of the man -made calendar. Many
will go through their entire life believing that weekends, birthdays, holidays, days of the
week and months are real. They end up living t heir life based on what the calendar or the
clock suggests. Just take the average week as an example. Work 5 days take 2 off. Work
from 9am and finish at 5pm. These two facts alone create a lazy and limited belief in the
mind of those who could potentially  be great. The average man gets home at 5pm, puts his
feet up and watches TV rather than working on his dream. Why? Because you cannot
possibly work outside of 5pm! “I’ve been at work all day I just don’t get time”. Is a common
phrase we hear. Second scena rio; A man gets to Friday, feels relieved and takes the entire
weekend off relaxing with his friends, spending money and going out on dates. If quizzed as
to why , the man would simply respond; “Well it’s the weekend, what else am I meant to
do”? This right  here, is the entire game of average or successful. A successful man will
understand the Calendar Effect, he will see life as one long line and anything he does early
will reward him for longer.  In other words , frontloading. A man with success in his futur e
will finish his 9 to 5 job and work from 7pm to midnight on his dream because he doesn’t
see limits, he just sees time. This same man will get to Friday, work until midnight, then
wake up at 5am the following day to knockout a 24-hour  weekend shift, 12 h ours per day on
his dream.
The more you detach from the calendar and the clock the more productive you become.
Many people will naturally wake up at 4am, smile, roll over, and go back to sleep knowing
they have 3 hours until their alarm goes off. They do t his because 4am signifies sleep not
work, this is because the clock rules them. A driven man will say, if I’m up, I’m up, and then

===== Page 23 =====

proceed to work. Across the period of a single year, we waste a ridiculous amount of time
and ruin our potential . Here are so me examples;
• 2 weeks off for Christmas
• Don’t start anything new until January 1st
• Do not work on weekends
• Do not work after 5pm
• Do not start work until 9am
• Always take your birthday off
• 3 years at Uni means I must follow the pace of the course
• Bank holidays or special days such as 4th of July I must relax
• I must spend  £1000 at Xmas, get fat and abuse my body with alcohol
• I must eat bags of chocolate at Easter
• I must take a summer vacation and my mind believes it’s okay to spend £2000 doing
so

These are just a few examples of how someone’s life falls hilariously short from where
they could have been. Take an 18 -year -old man as an example :
• Goes to Uni
• Gets drunk every weekend
• Gets drunk on student nights
• Goes to class 2 days per week
• Lives his life bas ed on September to May and then gets a summer job
• Plots his entire spending around student loan payments
• Stays at Uni for 3 years and follows the schedule even though everyone knows
you could pass the same course in 6 months if you had an Outlier Male leve l
focus
(Just think about this for a second. People waste 3 years of their life, doing something
that could’ve taken 6 months if they were to work daily instead of mixing it in with the
parties and wasted days.  However,  Universities are a business and they stretch the
course out to increase profits )
• Gets a job, works 9 to 5, five days per week and rests on weekends
• Spends large amount s of money on weekends and just after payday because
that’s what you’re supposed to do
• Gets married, has kids and a mortgage at 30 because again that’s what you’re
supposed to do by the time you reach these life checkpoints
• Takes summer holidays with his family, takes Xmas off and spends every
weekend with the kids
• Wants to change and do some thing big with his life but keeps waiting until New
Year to do it because that’s just what people do

===== Page 24 =====

Quite frankly, this guy has always been and will always be a n “I want to” or “wish I had” type
of guy. There’s nothing wrong with taking care of your kids and using weekends to spend
time with them, otherwise why have them right? But I left that in t o display the lack of time
you’ll have available once you follow lives checkpoints. By 30 if you’re not married, you’re
always going to be alone, or you’re behin d the expected timeline is such garbage. But men
listen to the Calendar Effect and then live to regret it when their life struggles to lift off. If
you added up the difference in time well spent between two men, it would astound you.
Let’s use man 1 and ma n 2 as examples;
Man 1:
Works 9 to 5 and no other time, also refuses to work weekends. Believes that he should
take a 1-week  holiday every year, take 2 weeks off at Xmas every year and take s a few days
off for his Birthday to celebrate each year. Decides at 30 to get married, have kids and tie his
spare income down on a mortgage , as he’d like to fit in with social norms.
Man 2:
Understands frontloading. Therefore, he works relentlessly after work and on weekends. He
gains 5 hours every night during the week, and gains 24 hours on his dream during the
weekend. He avoids holidays, birthdays, social events, taking time off at Xmas and other
annual events. He avoids marriage, ki ds and a mortgage for 10 years longer than man 1 and
is able to reinvest his money.
Just by working 5 hours per night and by working 12 hours per day on the weekend, man 2
gains 106 days of working time per year on man 1  or 2548 hours. If this trend contin ues
from 18 years old to 30, man 2 has worked a total of 1274 days/3.5 years more than man 1,
simply from 5 extra hours after work and sacrificing his weekends. Not to mention
birthdays, holidays, random days off etc. It’s more likely to be 4 to 5 years of  extra time
spent working on his dream than man 1 who is governed by the Calendar Effect. The
alarming fact here, is that; 4 to 5 years is actual work time, this isn’t working during these
extra years, this is actual time spent working. Having this 4-5-year advantage is why Outlier
Males succeed.
Then we reach stage 2. Marriage, kids, mortgages etc. The money aspect of these elements
is something we’ll speak about later on, but just think about how much more time from 30
to 40 gets spent on dates, days out with the family, looking after the kids, picking them up,
dropping them off, illnesses, and so on. I’m not saying to never had kids, we’ll break this
down later in the book, but when you’re trying to build a life, these extra hours are pivotal.
Man 2 who a lready has a 4 – 5-year advantage by 30, now extends that to around a 10 -year
working advantage by 35 -37, the age at which men  peak. If man 1 thought time was hard to
come by before kids, now it’s an entirely different story. Man 2 is now 10 years ahead, h as
money, all the time in the world to do the family thing and can take an entire year off if he
needs to. All because he ignored the Calendar Effect and frontloaded the work.
Never forget that time is just one long line, and the quicker you put things tog ether the
more time you have available to enjoy life. There’s a misconception that you should enjoy

===== Page 25 =====

your life when you’re young and if you only ever focus on work,  you’ll never get time to live
or spend time with your family. The people who say this are br oke and lost. They don’t
understand the concept of frontloading. Man 1 will get very little time with his kids as he
has to be  at work and has a boss who keeps him alive with adult pocket money. Man 2 could
take an entire year off and spend it with his kid s, all because he was willing to sacrifice his
own youth for a better life.



===== Page 26 =====

No Shortage of Beautiful Women

Beauty is as addictive as drugs, alcohol, gambling, you name it. Many men have a
beauty/lust addiction and it holds them back from ever reaching the top. They place
beautiful women on a pedestal and make “finding a wife” or “Making her his girl” their
entire life goal. Other men like to collect beautiful women like Pokémon Cards, they’ll make
it their aim to sleep with a beauty from each continent or “I have to sleep with a model
before I die”.
This mentality will drain all of your time, resources and self -respect. These types of men will
chase around the clock in order to feel accomplished. Like Rihanna said;
“Tryna fix your inner issues with a bad bitch”
She’s not wrong, most “players” or men who self -profess to loving women are just insecure
and trying t o find a beauty to fill that void. You pull up with a 10 and the entire venue
suddenly respects you, this is what many men like. But they misunderst and the dynamic.
Beauty isn’t rare!
For every perfect 10, there’s another 1,000 just around the corner. When  you perform
logical maths, it’s likely not far off the mark to suggest that 20 million 10’s exist at any one
time on planet Earth. That’s roughly 103,000 tens in every country of the world if we were
being overly precise. Now, how many rich and in shape m en are there?
Wherever you live, you will come across guys with wealth and guys with great bodies, but
rarely will you find both. Now why do I use just wealth and fitness? Because these two
components are almost like cheat codes in the modern world. Acquir ing both will shortcut
you to pretty much anything you’ve ever wanted. Naturally, if you were to add smart, great
personality, creative, etc then the man’s value increases even more, but if you focus on too
much at any given time you tend to get nothing.
A wealth y and in shape man may exist in a total of 10,000 per country, they’re far rarer than
a perfect 10 and women know this. This explains why placing women up on a pedestal is so
silly. Men have the real advantage , but  we simply don’t use it. When we ha ve youth, health
and fitness, we have no money and when we have money, we get fat  and unhealthy .
Bringing the two together will elevate any man to the peak of social value. I have always
promoted that men should work on nothing but fitness and wealth until  they’re 30/35, then
begin broadening their skillset/other traits. The big two take the longest to achieve and
without them, everything else simply doesn’t pack the same punch.
To drive the point home further, we have only compared perfect 10’s and wealthy /in-shape
men. What about all the beautiful women 7 and above? Collectively these women make up
around 40% of any  female  population. An outlier male makes up around  1% of the male
population.

===== Page 27 =====

Next time you’re worried about find ing a woman, or will someone beautiful want you, just
remember how abundant beautiful women are. Men highly value women on beauty and sex
appeal, women highly value men on success and physical prowess. They can reach 18 and
have this advantage handed to them with zero effort, a man will have to put minimum , a
decade of work in to achieve his upper hand. Women know this, hence the makeup, heels,
push -up bras, lingerie etc, they’re chasing you! Or at least the outlier males. Women
appreciate a great man because it requires work, this is why chasing women doesn’t make
sense. The better strategy is to improve , and build a life, women  will compete to be a part
of.
Beauty isn’t rare, outlier males are.


===== Page 28 =====

Don’t Chase , Upgrade

Something that could quickly derail a man  is a harsh breakup. The way to deal with this, and
pretty much any problem you ever have in life, is to grow and become bigger than your
problems.
“Don’t chase what you want, upgrade until what you want chases you”
As long as you live by this quote you’l l always do well. So many guys get dumped or rejected
and get presented with two options;
1. Lower their standards
2. Upgrade who they are
The first option is the easy way out. It feels better to go and seek a less imposing avenue. In
order to upgrade, you first have to admit that you weren’t good enough to get what you
originally wanted. Most men, including the short, fat, bald and ugly ones , have a giant ego.
The men who message me and say “It’s over for me, I’m short and bald” have the biggest
egos. They would argue “Chad” has the biggest ego as he’s tall, handsome and popular, but
that simply doesn’t make sense. The man with the largest ego is unwilling to improve, he
wants to give up because he’s not the best and believes everything should be handed to him
on a plate. This is the perfect d efinition of ego. Most incels suffer from the same problem.
Their egos are too large to accept that women aren’t automatically obliged to sleep with
them. I attempt to convince them that by improving , these women become available to you,
instead they compl ain; “It’s unfair we have to improve, why can’t they” or “I’m not getting
in the gym just to impress some girl” which is fine, but they’re some of the unhappiest
people I’ve ever met. If they were to drop their egos,  they’d find it far easier to navigate
lives challenges.
Many men don’t realise how upgrading works. They think they’re chasing to impress a
woman. In fact, what tends to happen is;
1. The man gets dumped
2. He works on himself with a desire to either get her back or get back at her
3. He eventually rise s to such a height that his ex/the woman who rejected him no
longer satisfies his needs
4. She tries to chase/impress him and he ignores her for more attractive and higher -
level women
The same holds true in any aspect of life. You d idn’t get the job you wante d, you go away
and become overly  qualified . Now  that same job you once applied for is beneath you. The
next time that job becomes vacant you ignore the listing and don’t even apply. Upgrading is
all we ever have especially as men. All other options should not even be explored. It falls
under the category of lifelong self -improvement, and lifelong self -improvement will always
reward you. The men who dedicate 40 – 50 years working on themselves everyday , will
naturally rise above those watching Netflix, porn and their own eyelids.

===== Page 29 =====

The First £ $€100k

Regardless of the currency listed above, it seems to be the 6 -figure total that takes you from
average to great in any country, but it’s the hardest to reach.
Put £100k into your account tomorrow and the moves you could make would be
astounding. I’ve spoken about this many times on the 1STMAN YouTube channel. There’s a
pay check trap. We all get paid just the right amount to keep us right where we are. Not too
little where we can’t do anything and revolt. Not too much where we can change our lives
within one year. Let me explain;
If you think £2,000 per month and £24,000 given to you all at once as a yearly budget is the
same then you’re in the trap.
£2,000 per m onth is enough to pay your bills, continue your little life and buy some nice
things to satisfy your dopamine. £24,000 could do that with £22,000 left over to invest, start
a business  or build a product.
The reason these two figures aren’t the same is beca use you can do so much more when a
large chunk of money is available to you at one given point. £2,000 per month will keep you
trapped in a 30 -day cycle that many pretend is a fulfilling life. Truth is you’re doing a lot of
the same thing’s day in and day out with very mediocre financial progression.
What’s the solution? Well considering no one, and I mean no one unless you’re a hot
woman is going to come and give you £24,000, you have one choice left.

Frugality, sacrifices and minimalistic living

This i s the end all and be all of every success story. Someone is willing to give up parties,
pointless stuff, luxuries, their social life, sex, a girlfriend, and then downgrade the things
they already have in order to save more. It may take 5 years of living li ke shit, but at the end
of this you’ll have the golden £100k , or you would’ve invested £100k over the period of 5
years and the results are already beginning to appear. However  you do this, 2 jobs, 3 jobs,
selling everything you own, working overtime, it d oesn’t matter. Just find a way to get that
first £100k.
Most men will go through the first 20 “earning years” with nothing more than a string of
cars, girlfriends a mortgage and a baby to show for it. The monthly pay check keeps them in
a constant loop and  they never actually save a meaningful amount of money to make a
serious difference. Were they to avoid all of the above, from 18 to 30 they’d comfortably
save the £100k needed to do something significant.
Money makes money and you have to spend money to make money, we’ve all heard this
before yet few live this way. They’d rather enjoy a few beers at the pub 6 nights per week,

===== Page 30 =====

be seen in a new car and the latest seasons outfits. The man who can overlook all of this and
appreciate the impact of the compound effect, will always come out on top. Whether he
saves a significant amount of money and uses it in bulk, or over the period of 5 years invests
£20k per year it doesn’t matter, t he impact will be the same.
Some examples may include;
• Putting £100k into an early cryptocurrency and 5 years later cashing in on millions
• Putting £20k per year for 5 years in a start -up and having that business pay you back
for the next 50 years 10 times that amount
• Investing that £100k into a property, renting that property and using the equity to
get a 2nd home with intent to rent. £1400 extra per month added to your wages of
£2000 per month now makes it very easy to buy a new property by the end o f the
year, which speeds up the next purchase and the next and the next and so on until
you have a portfolio paying you hundreds of thousands per month
• Purchasing 4 range rovers and starting a car rental service, or leasing 2 Ferrari’s with
that money and paying off the loan via rental profits until you own the vehicle
The possibilities are literally endless. The idea is somewhat irrelevant , the important thing is
having the £100k to invest in “big boy ideas”. I’m serious. Anyone can start a cupcake
busines s with £500, but certain businesses/ideas/products simply cost too much and raise
the barrier to entry. Now remember what we said earlier; money makes money. The “big
boy ideas” simply have higher returns. Renting out 2 Aston Martins for your new supercar
rental company will return £4000 profit per week. You’d have to sell around 10,000
cupcakes to reach the same numbers , that’s  1429 cupcakes per day or 1 per minute, good
luck!
Having money enables you to make more, quicker and in larger chunks, there’s not  a lot
more to it than that. By living like a normal human being, you’ll simply never save enough,
or have the cha nce to periodically invest enough to see the compound effect being
implemented. It’s pretty easy, live like shit for 5 plus years, re -invest e very plausible penny
and wait for the tables to turn.


===== Page 31 =====

Part 2 Execution
Fitness is the Foundation of a Good Male Life

“Vision without execution is day dreaming”
(Bill Gates)

Now that we’ve covered the mentality side of things and many of you now understand what
it will take to become an outlier male  and how any man can reach the top , it’s time to put it
into practice.  Knowing is just step one, the hard part is executing day in and day out without
any real sign of progress, but with the optimism of  a better life beckoning you out of your
sheets each morning.
So many men that I speak to on a daily basis want to achieve big things in their life, but will
regularly tell me they either don’t know where to start, or can’t take that first leap out of
the rut they’ve found themselves in. My answer is always the same but it’s never the one
they want to hear because it almost seems too simple. Everyone is looking for something
esoteric, that one “secret to success” that you read about on blogs written by int erns
earning minimum wage. “The ONE thing women go crazy for” or “Do this one thing and
become successful next year ”. Anything that follows this pattern is bullshit, written by a lazy
cunt getting their kick from telling other people how to do it. This is the closest they’ll ever
get to being successful or possessing the drive required to actually do something of worth.
If you truly want a kick up the ass you need to drag yourself to the gym, perform heavy
compound lifts and raise your testosterone. The val ue of lifting heavy shit is enormously
undervalued in the male world. Pretty much any problem a man has can be fixed by lifting
heavy shit. Depression, a breakup, low confidence, anxiety, gaining respect, getting a date,
getting a job, it’s the ultimate eq ualiser.
The benefits are vast, they range from of course the physical, all the way to the hormonal
which impacts your mood, stress levels, energy levels and self -esteem. Not sleeping well?
Great go lift heavy shit. Just got dumped and you’re falling into depression? Great go lift
heavy shit. Obese and you want to lose weight? Great forget the cardio and go lift heavy
shit! Fitness is the foundation of a male life for multiple reasons, all of which we’ll break
down here;

Improved Physical Form
The most obv ious but perhaps most rewarding, it makes you look better. There’s nothing
worse than a structureless man wearing baggy clothes, arms not filling the holes and simply
portraying a weak figure. Multiple times per week I have guys saying that big muscles are
lame, the gym is for suckers, or there’s more to life tha n appearance, and they’re right on

===== Page 32 =====

the last one. But is it lame to be healthy, attractive and to look more masculine? Getting in
shape simply makes your life easier . Women prefer in shape men, other  men gravitate
towards in shape men, jobs are easier to acquire, you take less shit, the benefits are so
much more than purely fitness based.

Improved Body Language and Posture
One of the major benefits to getting in shape is the way your body looks in terms of
movement, bone structure, naked or clothed.  A guy with no knowledge of body language
who hits the gym for 5 years straight will look fantastic when he stands, moves, wears a
tight t -shirt and strips down prior to sex. Muscle strength and tone infl uences the
positioning of the bones. Avoid the gym all your life and don’t be shocked when your neck
leans forward and your back hunches over. Men who dedicate a large chunk of their life to
the gym will always sit high up the social hierarchy. If you’re a  man and you’re not using
heavy  weights to your advantage, then you’re unlikely to ever feel the true benefit of being
a man.

Improved Physiology
It’s not just on the outside where you’ll see benefits from physical fitness. Every time you
train or eat cle an, you’re improving your body chemistry. Your hormones will be balanced,
your cortisol will be lower, your testosterone higher, more energy, improved mood, the
benefits are vast. Too many men see fitness as some “ alpha ” like feature for getting girls.
The truth is, the majority of happy and successful people all train in some capacity.  Waking
up each day with energy and passion for life cannot be undervalued. Whether you’re a
firefighter, entrepreneur or bus driver, feeling good, positive and energised is only going to
help you either be better or become more. Example; The gym gives you more energy once
you become fitter. If you’ve worked all day at your 9 to 5 and you’re out of shape, chances
are you’ll lie in bed watching Netflix all night because you’re “simply too tired”. This is the
excuse most people use to justify not being successful. A fit and healthy guy with a strict
gym routine will get home full of energy and be ready to do another 4 hours of work on his
dream.

Improved Self -Esteem
With the increase in muscle size and testosterone, it’s only natural that a man’s self -esteem
would increase. Why wouldn’t it? Testosterone influences our behaviours and decisions,
and looking good  makes you feel better about yourself. Any guys suffering from low
confidence, simply get in the gym. This isn’t to paper the cracks with muscles, this is more so
for the testosterone boost, the muscles are just a bonus of hard work. If you put the work in
you deserve to feel good about yourself. Weak men see muscles as a luxury or luck or lame.
Strong minded men understand how many years of 5am gym sessions this took, making

===== Page 33 =====

their way to the gym in the rain, having a disciplined diet for years and lifting the heaviest
shit when their body is already sore.

Greater Respect
A friend of 1STMAN Steve Walker Personal Trainer and Male Life Coach, once told me a
story about him and his brother at a bar. They were sat casually having a beer with a spare
chair next to them. A guy came over and asked Steve if it was okay to take the spare chair.
Steve obviously said yes and thought nothing of it, but Steve’s Brother was taken back. He
said “That never happens to me, you don’t understand the difference your size makes” . The
message here is that being in shape will command respect, undoubtably, men treat other
men with muscles more respectfully , a muscular man would make more door -to-door  sales,
a muscular guy gets served at the bar first and a muscular guy won’t be aske d “how many
more sets do you have left mate? ”

Easier to Attract a Partner
Women only date up on the social hierarchy , one very easy way to rise up that ladder is by
increasing size and muscle tone. It’ll simply make you look better and you’ll become more
sexually desirable. If you refuse to get in the gym just to attract women, then you’re a fool.
Making your life easier is a no -brainer. There’s not a man on the planet who has ever said; “I
hate it when beautiful women just come over and find me attractive”. Drop your ego, put in
a few years of work and enjoy your life.

Wealth Without Health is Pointless
Perhaps the most important point on this list. To understand this concept, you have to think
about it two different ways. Firstly, the most obvi ous, a billionaire with terminal cancer is
worse off than a young and healthy homeless man. Secondly, you have to appreciate the
male timeline.
The majority of men are born poor, and there’s no rich woman waiting to prop you up. The
reality for most men is  to suffer financially and work hard until things start coming together.
On the flipside, a young man is healthy, fit and youthful in appearance.
Here’s where it gets less obvious. A vast number of men will enjoy that youth too much.
They will reach their mid-30’s having overcome the financial shortcomings , but their health
and physical appearance has become their new shortcoming. Men tend to enjoy one
without the other and never combine the two together. When they have the body, they
don’t have the money. By the time the money arrives they’ve let the body slip.
The trick is, in reverse this system doesn’t really work. Very few men are born a millionaire
and then have to work hard to lose an obese figure. It always seems to be poverty and
struggle replaced w ith poor health and an over -indulgence of the finer things. With that

===== Page 34 =====

being said, we as men MUST take care of our bodies and health while we’re young in order
to get the full effect of the male advantage later down the line. You can be intelligent, a nice
person, kind, funny etc, but being rich and in shape really are the two trump cards of a male
life. Work on your fitness foundation relentlessly in your youth , in order to pair it with the
inevitability of money and assets.
I say “inevitability” because th e natural flow of life suggests you’re going to be better off at
35 than you were at 18. Unfortunately, parents die and the next generation inherit money
and assets. Fortunately, as we age jobs with larger salaries open their doors to us. Certain
things ju st happen/fall into place with age for men. All except fitness and health. If we were
to focus on achieving a top-level  physique and maintaining impeccable health  throughout
our 20’s, 30’s, 40’s and 50’s, we would enjoy a 20  - 30-year window of peak male a dvantage
years.


===== Page 35 =====

The Perfect Male Body System

Achieving the perfect male body is actually far easier than media and popular opinion would
like you to think. For generations, people would lace up their running shoes, grab a sports
drink and some headphone s, and assume that six pack and the bulging muscles were on
their way. Truth is, the perfect “male” body simply isn’t formed like this .
From my time with male fitness mode ls, fitness experts and my own male fitness journey, I
have found a single system that works above any other when it comes to building a
muscular frame with low body fat. This system looks like this….

Use your first year of training to bulk and add as much muscle as possible by taking
advantage of beginner gains. 5x5 lifts mixed  in with 8x3 lifts will do the trick. Occasionally
add in a 1 -3 rep max style day.
Once you’ve reached a significantly larger size, but have accumulated upwards of 16% bf,
cut in order to lose the fat whilst retaining as much muscle as possible. In order t o do this,
you must continue to lift heavy within the same rep range, but drop your calories to form a
300 to 600 calorie deficit. Over time the fat will begin to fall, and as long as you’re lifting
similar weights, your muscle should remain. You see, by d oing relentless amounts of cardio,
all you’re telling your body is, we no longer need this muscle, this is why so many guys yo -yo
around on their fitness journey, always looking relatively the same.
Once you reach 10% bf or below, you’re going to look fant astic. However from 14% to 12%
bf you’ll have a mental battle on your hands. This body fat range will have you looking far
smaller than when you were at peak bulk, but without the low body fat to make you look
ripped. Stay strong through this period and tr ust in the final 3% bf loss revealing your hard
work.
At 10% bf or below, it’s time to bulk again. Every man should bulk 2 or 3 times in his 20’s,
gains are too easy to achieve during this time. Your 2nd bulk is a real game changer. Instead
of starting fro m a high bf percentage, you’re now starting from ripped. The added calories
will immediately flesh your muscles out once again giving you a large and ripped frame.
Keep bulking until you reach 16% bf. Within 8% bf and 16% bf is optimal testosterone level
range, outside of this and oestrogen  begins to rise.
Your next cut, repeat what you did before. Only this time, you’re only cutting from 16% bf
and already look pretty ripped due to muscle size. By the time you reach 12% bf or below,
you’re going to be unr ecognisable from when you began. This will be one of the first times
you experience the male advantage on any level.
When cutting, if you’d like to perform cardio, do HIIT training, high intensity workouts with
explosive intervals and short rests. Examples  include sprints, boxing or box jumps. Walking is
also a better option than jogging. One thing I’ve picked up from fitness models is, they walk

===== Page 36 =====

and sprint but never jog. Jogging suits women far better than it does men.  This goes for
sports too, playing spo rts is great, but for building the perfect male body, the two simply
don’t go together. It’s hard to build/retain muscle when you’re running around a football
pitch for 90 minutes straight , or out on a tennis court for 3 hours at a time.  This is why NFL
players stay jacked, they explode for 10 seconds and then rest.
At this stage complete another bulk and cut for your third round of gains. Your 1st round of
gains will be 10+lbs of lean muscle, your 2nd around 8lbs and your 3rd around 4lbs. Your 4th
will res ult in around 1lbs of lean muscle and quite frankly isn’t worth doing. It’s better to
gain muscle without drastic bulks beyond this point and instead via strength gains. However
by the end of bulk and cut 3, you should be 20-25lbs heavier with 10% bf. A ma n who starts
at 80kg and overweight, in 3 years can be 9 2kg and lean, although it doesn’t sound like a
giant leap, the “lean part” means he’ll look around twice as big . Return this man to his
previous bf percentage and he’d be closer to 100kg looking like a beast. Of course, you
could gain more, but this is a rough estimate of the average man’s genetic potential.

===== Page 37 =====

Body Language & Body Language Mindset

Tying into the previous chapter we have body language and the mindset required to display
dominant male body language.  In this chapter we’ll breakdown everything you need to
know regarding male body language and how to be comfortable with displaying it.

What is Body Language?
Body language accounts for 70% - 90% of our overall daily communication. Mean ing that it’s
far more important than the words coming out of your mouth, yet men will stress over what
to say and how to say it more so than how they stand, make eye contact or walk.  Ryan
Gosling is a perfect example of this and perhaps my favourite body language utiliser. In 90%
of his films,  he barely says a word, makes every situation awkward and women seem to love
him for it. The reason for this , is his body language, it’s what his body is saying, not his
mouth.
Body language can be the difference betw een getting the interview or not, getting the girl
or not, sealing the business investment or not. Now, this doesn’t happen because people
are reading your body language and then judging you on it. In reality, the average person
has no idea about body lang uage, instead they’re judging you unconsciously off instinct.
Body language is perhaps the oldest language. We were reading the body language of a
potential threat long before we were speaking. This is why when you meet someone you get
that “good feeling a bout this guy” instinct. Or “I don’t know what it is about that woman,
but I find her so sexy”. If this happens its body language. Your brain is unconsciously picking
up on cues you didn’t realise were there. The end result is a 7 to 21 second window where
we make a snap judgement of someone, or they make a snap judgement of us. If you don’t
think this is something you need to worry about , just remember, first impressions stick like
Gorilla Glue.

Eye Contact

The most essential part of a body language arsenal is eye contact. Without this everything
else you do will fall apart. Eye contact will control any negotiation, sexual encounter or
argument. Once you learn how to master eye contact, it’ll feel like a chea t code.
So how do you do it?
Eye contact is tricky, every cell in your body will tell you to look away after a certain amount
of time, but you shouldn’t. Here’s the scenarios you will face…
Catching an eye accidently

===== Page 38 =====

You’re walking along , you see a beautif ul woman, suddenly she looks right at you, your
heart jumps and you look away or at the ground. Bad move, very submissive.
It goes against everything we’re taught but you need to hold that eye contact even more so
in this scenario.
If you look away it sign ifies that you just got caught. Continue looking that woman right in
the eye, as it signifies you don’t want to hide . That’s rare!
When talking to women
You may be on a date, you may see an old friend, you may be speaking to a beautiful
cashier. Whatever t he situation, eye contact is key. It’s almost impossible to reverse
someone’s 1st impression of you. This is why eye contact is so important during interactions.
You have to assert dominance early and often. There is no skill here or secret tip, simply
hold eye contact while you talk to the woman. It’s that easy.
As I said, nearly all men will look around, scratch, swing their arms, glance around the room,
etc, etc, quite frankly once you know what you’re looking for it’s embarrassing watching
fellow men b ehave this way from such a simple interaction.
When you hold eye contact for extended periods of time, you will naturally assume the
person opposite thinks you’re strange as you’re not comfortable doing this yet. The
individual may even call you out and as k “why are you looking at me like that” or “you’re
very intense”. You don’t have to justify why you’re holding eye contact, just continue
holding and smile, only moving on when you’d like to.
The only tip I can give you is to try it. Next time you’re out in public, paying for gas/fuel, or
even speaking to a girl -friend/someone you know, try this and watch the difference in their
reaction to you.
Talking to other men
Men take eye contact personally so watch out.  Look at the wrong person too long and you
may  be in a fist fight, but this is again rare. When speaking to other men or when in groups
of men, make sure you’re always the last to look away. Other men won’t admit it because of
our egos but you will slowly see yourself climb up the unspoken pecking order .
Something in our subconscious , tells us that this is a serious man who needs to be
respected. Even though someone may be able to kick your ass, they will treat you with
respect.

Speed of movement

Step 2 of any male with superior body language is speed of movement. It’s not really
something you think about right moving at different speeds ?

===== Page 39 =====

What does that even mean? In short, weaker men  move fast, they jerk, they shuffle, they
react subconsciously. Outlier males  move at their own pace, everything is done calmly and
smoothly, they respond rather than react…I’ll explain.
A lower -level  man  will turn his head and look at everything. Sometimes I see guys turning
their heads to look at every woman that walk s past, it’s embarrassing, relax, go about your
business calmly.
My advice when it come s to speed of movement is to slow everything down, make
deliberate movements rather than jerky movements. Don’t be one of those guys who’s
looking around at everything a nd anything.
You need to give off the impression that you’ve done and seen everything before. Take the
world in your stride, look at everything from the front of the eye not the side of your eyes,
that’s a prey  move.
If you’re in a club reach for your drin k slowly, bring it back towards your mouth slowly and
tilt it slowly. Obviously not in slow -motion, but at a slower speed than normal as if you are
comfortable and own your surroundings, that’s all it is at the end of the day, you’re showing
that you are c omfortable and that you own what’s around you.
The rule of thumb , is to move like you’re in treacle. Men  who move slower will always
appear calmer and more dominant  than those who dart around like rabbits.
Those men that are hurrying around, reacting to ev erything they see will never attract the
highest -level women or be respected by other men. Top-level men  are not only aloof to
women, but to everything that goes on around them. This is why bad boys are so attractive
to women and other men want to be them.
My tips for you, would be to walk slower, relax your body, lower your shoulders, reach for
stuff slower, get up slower, sit down slower, turn slower and follow your eyes, don’t let your
eyes lead you.

Tonality

Tonality is speech, which makes it a strang e title to have in a body language chapter .
Tonality in sales is worth 93% of a phone call. Granted this is because the person can’t see
you, but it displays how the words you’re saying aren’t as important as how you’re saying
them. This is a line from the  film Hitch which is also about attracting women .
Tonality focuses on the way we speak, the type of sounds that are coming out of our
mouths.  This involves tone, pitch, speed of speech, stutters, pauses and more.  People don’t
realise how much the way we sound influences those around us. Just look at the wolf of wall
street  - Jordan Belfort.

===== Page 40 =====

Jordan was a master salesman. What does he teach people in sales today? Not the words he
says, but the tonality in which he says them. Humans have a subconscious that  recognises
patterns, specifically speech patterns.  In sales , a rhythm of positive words said in a certain
way to evoke certain emotions  are used .
For example:
Hi John, it’s Kris from XXXX (Up tone), I called last WEEK ( assertive tone ), we discussed the
FINANCIAL PACK ( Say both words slower and with emphasis ), DOES THAT RING A BELL (Up
tone). Believe me, even if people don’t  remember they ’ll say yes. People can be influenced
extremely easily, that’s why I must remind you to use everything you learn in this chapter
ethically.
Women and your friends are also no different, they just need a different approach. Tonality
can convince people to do something they normally wouldn’t want to do or don’t want to
do in real time.
Here’s how to use high -level  male tonalit y.
Vin Diesel is a great example. Now you don’t have to talk as deep as he does, but his style is
a great example. Vin is not a great actor, he’s made a career out of being stocky, masculine
and having great tonality.
Here’s how:
Vin talks slowly. Why? Bec ause outlier  males get listened to. Have you ever noticed how
someone who is not a  high -level man  in a group gets talked over? This is because people
have no respect for those who are further down the pecking order than they are. This
means that lower -level men  talk quickly as they know they have a limited time to get their
words out. This is a learned habit, perhaps from their childhood, or learned experience
during their teenage/ early adult years.
High -level men  talk slowly, as they know they will not be interrupted and will have time to
get their words out. The impact will  surprise  you, if you start talking slower people tend to
listen to what you have to say , just look at politicians. Obama was famous for talking slowly.
Secondly, you should speak in a l ower tone. People who speak in a high -pitched  tone sound
weak, that’s why females have higher pitched voices. Relax before you speak. There’s a
function in the majority of people which makes their voices higher pitched when speaking to
a new person/meeting  someone for the first time.
This is amplified when speaking with women as according to research men want to show
women that they are not a threat. However, women prefer a calm man with a lower voice.
Research has shown that most men increase their pitch when speaking with women which
actually ruins their chances of making her attracted.
Monitor yourself next time you speak with a woman. See what happens to your voice when
you first encounter her. For most men their voices go up in tone and immediately put  them

===== Page 41 =====

on the back foot. This is a sign that you are ; 1. intimidated by her and 2. excited to see her,
both signs of a weak man or thirsty man.
The higher -level man  will not change how he sounds. He will act indifferent and will greet
the woman in the same pitch he has been talking to his boys in all day, even if it’s a surprise
greeting.
Ums & Ahs
Your next task is to get rid of ums and ahs, pauses are your best friend. Many men  will use
ums and ahs after every sentence because they are afraid of silen ce. They want to fill that
space because they feel awkward.
High -level men  will embrace the silence and use it to think about their next sentence or
bravely say nothing at all whilst maintaining eye contact. Ryan Gosling is a master of this art.
Ending sentences
The end of sentences should force your tonality down like a stateme nt. Most people
however , especially in the modern era , will force their tone up, like a question  to appear
submissive , or for sales usage - empathetic . Listen to any of the Kardashians as an example:
“ i didn’t want to GOOOOO, i mean i thought it would BE BETTERRRRR, but it was OKAYYYY  I
GUESSSSSSS” Hopefully you read that how it’s written and get an idea of how not to speak
as a man. This uplift at the end of sentences (inflection point) is a very submissive move in a
tonality sense and should be avoided.
Why? Questions are considered as asking for permission. By raising your tonality at the end
of every sentence you’re asking for permission/questioning yourself with everything you
say. This doesn’t come across as being very assertive .
Try to lower your ton e at the end of sentences and make what you say a statement rather
than a question.
Imagine a woman asking you what you want to do tonight?

Response 1: that Italian place in the city is good DON’T YOU THINK ? (up tone question)
Response 2: Lets go to t he Italian place in the city.

Response 2 is winning every time. Women want a man who takes control, not one that asks
her what she wants in a submissive tone. Say it in the right way and it’s not even a question,
it won’t be a debate, she will think you have already decided and she is happy to follow your
lead .
The same goes for the men around you. If you use that questioning submissive tone then
two things will happen, you’ll have more friends but everyone will walk all over you.

===== Page 42 =====

Having more friends sounds great right? It’s not, every person I have ever known who has
had a lot of friends is usually weak , agreeable , lazy , demotivated and unsuccessful .
A high -level  male is a leader, you don’t have to be liked in order to have what you want in
life. This  doesn’t mean you should be a dick, but you should understand  that, certain traits
and body language habits  will make weaker more submissive people hate you.  This is where
you get certain groups of men who hate anyone who’s better than them at anything.
They’re full of excuses, the y make others dislike you and they possess young female like
traits.

Standing posture

Standing feels awkward,  many worry about what to do with their arms, do they look weird
etc. Women do this without thinking, why ? Because wo men are in their heads a lot , thinking
about how others view them.
I stand with my legs shoulder width apart and toes pointing at a 45-degree  angle, upright
posture, arms just away from my sides and chin parallel to the ground. Shoulders should
also be dow n and back to emit a very relaxed and composed posture.
This will convey to those around you that you are comfortable within your surroundings,
especially if somewhere is very busy. This might be the rarest high -level male trait that I ’ve
seen. Maybe 99% o f people will opt for leaning or using their phone when left to stand
alone, or likely  both!  The man  who opts to stand and take the world in will be noticed. This
cannot be forced , otherwise people will realise.
This can be used when standing in clubs, out  in public or even when waiting in line.
Remember if you are holding anything like a drink, a coat, or a bag to keep it low. If you use
it to cover yourself/hide behind it, it signifies weakness. An example would be holding your
coat with both arms in fron t of your mid -section. This says to the world that you are
intimidated and need protection between them and you, this is a scared  male trait.
Final tip, do not shuffle, so many me n shuffle from side to side as it looks like they’re doing
something. You need to become comfortable with doing nothing.

Seated posture

Seated posture is a little more elaborative than standing posture. There are a few keys to
seated posture:
Wide feet:

===== Page 43 =====

Your feet should be separated without it looking unnatural . A good measurement is to align
your heels  with your arm rests  at a 45 -degree angle . By doing this you take up more space
which is something we will talk about later.
Wide legs:
Having wide legs is the same as the feet, however it does one extra thing, it exposes your
testicles which is a form of dominant body language . You’ll see guys in photos with hands
clasp in front of their testicles and there’s usually a  high -level  man  with  their hands spread
over that guys shoulders. It’s so obvious to spot who is the leader  in every group.  By
covering your testicles, it signifies fear and a lack of masculine energy. You should  spread
your legs and be comfortable in doing so .
Sit upright:
Sitting upright is key, slouching in your chair is a beta move. So many people in the modern
era especially men , have a slouching posture where they slide down in their chair or lean
forward with elbows on their knees.
The correct way to do it, is to sit in  the whole chair. A lot of people sit on the edge of their
chair as if they are not comfortable and need to get out quickly. A  confident man  will sit
back in the whole chair with their butt  at the back. This makes them appear relaxed and at
home, whilst al lowing their back to perfectly push up against the back rest.
If there isn’t a back rest, let’s say a bar stool, then a  confident  male will sit upright
regardless of it aching over time, with their shoulders back and down.
Arms wide:
Having your arms wide or at least on the arm rests is a  dominant  move. You can even clasp
your hands behind your head. A weaker  male and someone that women are not paying
attention to, is the guy wrapped up in his chair, looking down at his phone with his
shoulders and hands tucked in close to his body, perhaps even covering his testicles.

Taking up space

This leads us straight into our next point of taking up  space.  Taking up space is the most
primitive chimp like behaviour we can do but it works!  Stretching out and appearing more
relaxed and in control has a great impact on how we perceive someone.
Big men are celebrated because they’re taking up more space t han others. Small but
dominant  males are masters at taking up space, they will monopolise every piece of
furniture, leg space or limited resources around them.  This is how even with such a slight
frame, they’re able to assert much higher levels of dominanc e than expected .

===== Page 44 =====

This could be on a train where there’s only one arm rest either side and you take both. It
could be stretching your arms across the back of two seats when there are people  you know
sat in them. Or it could even be as simple as standing wit h your feet placed a little wider
apart in a crowd.
Taking up space is exactly what it says on the tin. The reason it works is because it displays
ownership of a larger area or resources which is strangely attractive . It’s a primitive reaction
that we all have, but seeing someone take up a lot of space makes us believe that they are
the head/alpha chimp otherwise why would they be doing this/getting away with this?
Another form of taking up space is whether you are the one who moves out of the way or
not wh en someone is walking towards you.  Are you the one who moves sideways, tucks
their shoulder in, or are you the type of person who keeps walking and believes the  other
person  should move?
Is this rude? Yeah. Should you do this to everyone? No, of course mov e out of the way for
kids and elderly people. However, if you want attractive body language then be the man
who doesn’t break stride for others as it looks very commanding  to those watching,
especially women.  If you were to ask a woman about this, she’d sa y it’s stupid, rude and
won’t work. However subconsciously she’ll find this man attractive without knowing why if
she saw this take place on the street.

Walking

To walk like a  high -level man  is somewhat intimidating. Most people are scared of what
others think about them, therefore walking in this manner  will bring attention. If you truly
want to emit attractive body language then you have to be ready for people to look and to
judge you.
You will be going from someone who is trying not to be seen , to someone who cannot be
missed. This is why low confidence men  behave the way they do . They do not want to be
seen and they do not want to cause any issues , therefore they scatter around in a tightl y
kept ball .
By walking in a confident man ner, you show others that you are a strong , confident and
powerful  man which not everyone likes, but women will love. I know women who have
dated a man purely because of the way he walked.
Here’s how to master the walk:
Step 1  – Heel to toe
You need to walk with longer strides, this displays longer legs which is deemed as attractive
due to height , even if you don’t have long legs or height on your side. You have to make the
most of what you do have.

===== Page 45 =====

The way to do t his is by stepping from heel to toe. What does that mean? You put your heel
down first and the toes follow. This is a trick to increase your stride length.
Step 2  – Chin parallel to the ground
Having your chin parallel to the ground gives you a confident a ppearance. Never look down
at the ground unless you’re stepping onto a curb etc. Looking down at the ground especially
when walking is a sign of submissiveness. There’s a reason why children do it and parents
ask those children “What’s the matter ?”. It doe sn’t give off the best signals to those around
you. You should instead have the chin parallel to the ground giving you a forward -facing
posture.
Step 3  – Look into the distance
Looking into the distance gives you a sense of purpose , as if you have a destination to get to.
You don’t want to be aimlessly strolling around looking at everything like a casual Sunday
shopper , unless of course you are.
It’s no secret that women love an ambitious and successful man with drive. Looking into t he
distance gives that impression. A man with a target/goal in his sights is attractive. It’s also
100 times better than walking along and looking at every woman in sight with your head on
a swivel . Women, especially attractive ones will always remember an d be curious about the
one guy who doesn’t look at her because he has more going on and she isn’t his main or
even secondary focus.
Step 4  – Shoulders back and down
We spoke about this earlier and it’s relevant again here. Having tight and upwards shoulder s
isn’t attractive, it means you’re not relaxed.
When Conor McGregor fought Jose Aldo, McGregor was loose and relaxed, Joe Rogan even
mentions this in commentary. Aldo however is tight and compact;  you can visibly see this in
the seconds prior to the fight  beginning.
Having high and tight shoulders is not attractive. Having loose and relaxed shoulders that
are back and down has two advantages. It gives the impression that you are comfortable in
the current surroundings , it makes your chest look larger which  is every man’s friend.
Step 5  – The abs walk
Coined by Dr Mike Mew the orthotropics specialist who you may have encountered in one
of our videos . This term means that your abs are straight and you are engaging your abs
when you walk. This again has two ad vantages, one it makes you look taller/slightly more
confident, two it will create  better abs and posture over time.
Step 6  – Speed of movement
Again, we touched on this earlier, but it’s required  again . Walking with longer strides but
slow ing everything down is a real confident ma le move . Think of the people who walk fast ….
people  late for class, nerds in films, employees scared of being late, shy women.  If you ’ve

===== Page 46 =====

ever seen a silverback stand on its back  legs and walk, you will understand what I’m talking
about. Conor McGregor’s famous walk is a prime example , but of course , very over -
exaggerated .

Head posture

Modern life is making us uglier, there’s no debate. We’re looking down at our phones,
computer screens and more devices. We’re using ou r jaw muscles less and we’re keeping
our mouths open more. Our faces are growing incorrectly.  This is something we will go into
detail for in a later chapter.
This is leading to weak necks, jawlines, tongues and more. This is causing hunchback
postures with a slight lean forward. No matter how good your body language is, it’s hard to
act like a  dominant man  without a chin, jawline or correct head positioning because
everything will not align  correctly.

Interacting with others

Being around strangers  is where most will fail with their body language . It takes a lot of
practice to be carefree and to get this right.
Anyone can be confident  around those they know or around their friends. But your body
language needs to be automatic in order to succee d every day in unexpected circumstances.
Let’s look at some examples of those circumstances now.
Handshake: Always go in strong and shake firm. If you want to appear dominant, then turn
their hand during the shake until yours is on top. One mistake a lot o f men make when
shaking hands is reaching. Don’t ever be in a situation where you’re reaching a hand, you
should step forward if needed so you can avoid that awkward finger handshake where your
hand didn’t go in far enough. When shaking someone’s hand make  sure you hold eye
contact the entire time, no one likes to do this , which will earn you a lot of respect.
One on one conversation: Always hold eye contact, move as little as possible. These are the
two rules I would give any man regardless of who they are  speaking with. Too many men
look around, scratch, shuffle their feet and look awkward. You should stand firm with flat
feet and maintain eye contact even if nothing is being said. You have to remember silence
isn’t awkward, it takes two people to have a c onversation, if it’s silent it’s their fault too.
Feeling like you have to fill that emptiness is a n insecurity .
Group conversation: Look everyone in the eye and move your head slowly to look at each
person in the eye as you speak. When doing this do not l ook out the corner of your eye,

===== Page 47 =====

follow your eyes with your head but do it slowly. This is how to command a group
conversation.
Secondly you should talk from your chest, if someone interrupts you you’ve failed. The best
sales people don’t get interrupted. W hy? Because they sound sharp and assertive. A rookie
who is whispering and stuttering has to be interrupted because it’s painful to hear.
Remember not to move a lot in this scenario. Your feet should be wide and planted with
shoulders back and down just li ke with the standing posture. It’s your head that will turn
180 degrees at most.
Seeing a beautiful woman: Common mistake  – Guy going about his day, beautiful woman in
short skirt unexpectedly appears and his mouth falls open slightly, eyebrows go up and e yes
widen. Like a kid at Christmas,  he has just ruined his chances with this woman  regardless of
his next moves .
A woman like this gets looked at by every man  in the same manner . A man who
unexpectedly sees a beautiful woman and doesn’t change his facial expression, instead
looks her right in the eye until she either looks away or down will certainly be considered
high value  by the woman.
Secondly , never turn more than 45 degrees  when looking at women. If you have to
physically turn your body or crane your neck  to see her then your power has been lost. If
she isn’t within your field of vision then I’m sorry but you have to man it and keep moving
forward, you’ll see another soon en ough.
If you approach her after turning your head or body then this is the only exception. But you
have to go straight over otherwise it won’t work.
Seeing two or more beautiful women:
Pick one, the first one who caught your eye and stay focused. DO NOT look at the other one.
WHY? Because this gives the impression that you are an uncertain  man and a potential
cheater . Pick one and stick to giving her all of your eye contact.

Clothing is your friend

If you want to improve your body language , you will hav e to upgrade your wardrobe. Having
baggy clothes with no shoulder or V -shaped  torso  structure will hurt your chances of
standing out.  Spend a day shopping and opt for clothes that provide you with improved
posture.  Only the likes of Vin Diesel can get away  with a baggy shirt, however even he looks
better when that shirt is down 1 size.  Unless you have the body of a God, then you will need
to improve your wardrobe.


===== Page 48 =====

Extra bad habits to avoid

Scratching
Touching your face
Looking behind you
Walking too fast when entering clubs/headed out – I see so many guys around 8/9pm
walking to bars with a can/bottle in their hand rushing to the venue as if they’re desperate
for sex and to get drunk. This is such a weak habit.
Mumbling
Both h ands in your pockets
Open hand  postures – This is where you show your palm as if to say it wasn’t me, this is
submissive behaviour
Turning when you hear people laugh – This makes you appear insecure
Covering your mouth when you laugh
Behaving different ly around beautiful women/ dominant  males to how  you would everyone
else – People notice

Mentality of good body language

As we discussed , good body language brings attention, sometimes unwanted if you don’t
possess that natural level of confidence.  It takes a certain level of bravery to d isplay
dominant  male body language because it’s against the norm. Society wants you to roll up
into a protective ball and stay hidden as you move through life.  Instead,  you need to
embrace being a leader or a point of interest for so many others. Expect at tention and get
used to it.
The first thing you should do before practicing anything you have read , is to practice this on
your own and ask yourself if you want that kind of attention?  I would recommend yes, as it
will enable you to attract the best women,  get respect from men and open up
opportunities , such as high success during job interviews and even business negotiations.  I
want you guys to understand and believe that this is how a man should act, regardless of
who you are.



===== Page 49 =====

Spoken word congruency

There’s no use in having the world’s greatest body language and coming across as a positive
high -level  male , if everything that comes out of your mouth is weak, negative and
submissive.
You should aim to start using positive words such as I will rather than if I can.
A high -level man  or someone who women and men want to be around leads by example.
Constantly com plaining about small issues will ruin everything you are working towards with
your improved body language.
In order to put everything into full effect your body language, tonality and words need to be
in complete congruency.

Predator vs Prey

In body lang uage we take huge inspiration from the animal kingdom.
One of the major features from this world is how predators move in comparison to prey
animals.
Here are the differences:
Predators
Eyes forward facing
Almost never look behind
Move slow majority of the  time
Stand tall when provoked
Appear sharp
Step confidently
Celebrated by the world over: Lions, Tigers, Polar Bears, Cheetahs, Sharks and Eagles are
considered more popular than Rabbits, Sloths or Antelope.
Prey
Eyes to the side of their heads so they ca n look what’s around and behind them
Always look scared
Move tentatively with  stutter ed movements

===== Page 50 =====

Lift their heads to every single noise they hear
Run at the first sign of danger
Prance or tread lightly

Can you start seeing the differences? Obviously, some of these animals would lose their life
if they stood tall and took on a Lion but that’s them, humans are different, we are not being
attacked each day, we’re smarter than that.
Our battlegrounds are boardrooms, first dates or even sports arenas. We can choose if we
want to be predator or prey, you have that power in your hands so use i t.

The world around you

This final section is all about reacting. A dog barks, or a glass smashes, perhaps a car honks
its horn, how do you react?  Do you jump, immediately turn around to see what happened?
Or do you act aloof and get on with what you were doing as if you’ve seen/heard it all
before?  Many men are  in the first category. Most people will make an enormous effort to
find out what every noi se is. It’s very attractive to be unreactive to these types of moments .
It sounds so stupid, but it’s true. Here’s why…Women want men who can protect them and
handle all of lives difficulties. Not reacting to a loud noise or surprise event is the smallest
version of dealing with one of lives problems and gives off signals that you are someone
who she can rely upon.  Try this next time you are out, walk around in public, preferably a
busy place and watch how many people react to loud noises or anything out of  the norm.


===== Page 51 =====

Orthotropics & Neck Exercises

If you’re not a 1STMAN community member you may be thinking; what on Earth is
Orthotropics? I first came across this subject when searching YouTube for help with my
floppy jawline. After a bunch of clearly bogus videos, I found Dr Mike Mew (who I have since
filmed a documentary with) and my eyes were opened. Until this point I always believed the
face you were born with was the one you were stuck with. As someone who was dedicated
to daily self -improvement and somewhat “body hacking” this was a disappointment. Mike
began speaking about how our daily habits and oral posture influenced the way we looked .
He then followed up with some before and after pictures and some big words! I was s old, I
began deploying his methods and gave it a few years.  I first started noticing hollower
cheeks, followed by a wider jawline, higher cheekbones and more welcomed; a further
forward face. No longer did my jawline sit back with a recessed chin, instead it pushed
forward confidently creating a nice bone structure. The only remaining issue I had was my
connecting neck. I’m sure many of you have seen this before, perhaps you have it? Someone
with low body fat, no double chin, the appearance of a good jawlin e but their neck still
seems to attach to their chin. It’s almost like extra skin. However , with  even low body fat
individuals suffering from this, the conclusion must be drawn outside of a simple fat loss fix.

External Attraction

In this chapter we’re g oing to look at becoming a better -looking  man and the two methods
for doing so. Firstly, we have to clarify the importance of external attraction. All our lives
we’ve been told “it’s what’s on the inside that counts” and I completely agree. However,
everyo ne in human existence will admit that life is easier and better when you’re attractive.
Now, if there are methods for enabling you to take advantage of this, then why wouldn’t
you use them? This certainly isn’t to promote plastic surgery, but a natural met hod that
simply  maximises your faces full potential.  In order to look better, the majority of people
will head to the gym, but very rarely will our faces receive the same treatment and
dedication.
“I believe that taking care of oneself adds quality to life , and that looking the best you can, is
a show of respect to those around you”
(Tom Ford)

Introduction to Orthotropics


===== Page 52 =====

To understand orthotropics you have to understand modern life. We have gone from
standing tall with our heads held high chewing on raw meat  to slumping in front of TV
screens with our mouths open chewing on mash pot ato. Our posture, jaw strength and thus
bone structure, have adapted to suit the lifestyle habits of modern people. Rather than
looking across the horizon for threats, we’re now looking down at our phones with a bent
over hunchback. It’s only natural that we’re not going to look the same if this is a position
we’re holding , for hours on end each day.
Just think about the average human day. Wake up and check your phone in bed. Sit in front
of a PC all day with mouth open and neck arched forward . Get home  and eat soft foods that
have been over cooke d. Sit in front of the tv and slouch until it’s time to lie down once again
in bed, likely with your mouth falling open due to weak jaw muscles from softer food.  All in
all, it’s not good reading for the present and future facial appearance of humans. The good
news is; you can change it!

Oral Posture, Jaw Strength and Maxilla Positioning

Bones are constantly remodelling through the process of calcification. The older you get the
less dramatic this process, which is why children’s faces change so dramatica lly year on year.
However facial changes can still occur in adults if you’re willing to put in the work. The work
I refer to , stems from something many are familiar with, growing your muscles to improve
resting posture, except in orthotropics the muscles are in your face. Muscles and bones
have an interesting partnership. The strength and size of a muscle will influence the posi tion
of a bone. Studies have found that bones are very good at resisting short term heavy
impacts. Yet they display their weakness in a much more gradual weathering like effect. If
the force of a muscle is constantly forcing a bone to grow outwards, then s lowly over time
that bone will remodel to suit the muscle. This is why people who go to the gym can
experience either good posture, or poor posture from the same type of training . One man
may have gone chest heavy and performed fewer back exercises giving him a hunch back.
Another man may focus on functional training and therefore stands and walks tall.
The strongest pound for pound muscle in the human body is the tongue. The tongue has
been called the seat of facial beauty by Mike Mew. Due to its strength , it has a major impact
on the way your bones position.  The masseter or jaw muscles are the largest muscles in the
face, having a direct effect on jaw positioning. Between the two, you have an outer U and an
inner U that form the structure of a human face.  The inner U impacts the cheekbone
position , and the outer U predicts the jaw alignment. Together one can achieve facial
beauty.
Everything is connected i n a chain -reaction of good or bad decisions. Achieving bigger and
stronger jaw muscle s, not only looks  good, but  will improve the likelihood one can keep
their mouth closed. This is important as it’s physically impossible to place your tongue on
the roof of your mouth with your mouth open. At the roof of your mouth, you have the

===== Page 53 =====

palette. The palette and th e tongue are a similar shape by design. The tongue should rest on
the roof of your mouth. This is achieved by placing the tip of your tongue on the papilla, the
small pulp behind your two front teeth, and by placing the rest of the tongue, most
importantly  the posterior third , on the roof of the mouth/the palette. The reason we should
do this, is due to the most important bone in your face, the maxilla bone. The maxilla bone
sits in the centre of a face, it connects to your cheek bones, nose bone, forehead and the
upper teeth. In short, the positioning of the maxilla bone can alter your entire facial
structure. This is why, having a strong jaw, that keeps your mouth closed, in order to place
the tongue on the roof of the mouth, directly under the maxilla bon e is so crucial. This chain
reaction acts life scaffolding. If it comes down, facial recession will naturally occur.
Once the tongue is correctly positioned on the roof of one’s  mouth, the muscle to bone
influence we discussed earlier can take place. Year after year the muscle strength of the
tongue will begin to influence the bone remodelling process of the maxilla. The maxilla will
begin to grow upwards and forwards. This is the key, having a face that grows upwards and
forwards. The maxilla will then dri ve up the positioning of the cheekbones, eyes, forehead
and take the jawline with it. The maxilla and jawbone work as a hinged pair. When the
maxilla moves forward the jawbone must follow in order to close at the same point. Higher
cheekbones will dramatic ally increase upper facial width and angular sharpness, which in
turn increases the chances of achieving hollow cheeks, something we’ll touch upon later.
This method is around 90% of facial beauty. Master this and then perform the instructions
for 5 to 10 years for the results you desire.

Palette Expansion

The second aim of the tongue to palette connection is palette expansion. When the tongue
is pressed up to the palette it also gradually forces the upper teeth to increase in width. A
wider palette increases the amount of space for the airwave. The easier it is for yo u to
breath the higher the chance of you keeping your mouth closed and avoiding allergies. The
second benefit of palette expansion is a wider smile and a wider face. Narrow faces are
deemed less attractive, as is teeth crowding. By keeping your tongue on t he roof of your
mouth, it’ll help to avoid both problems.

Hollow Cheeks

A very rare feature that many of us would desire to have. In actual fact, not too difficult to
achieve . The cheek area in which people associate with being hollow and attractive, is
actually the buccinator muscle. There’s in fact very little fat in this region of the face, which
can be hard to believe at times due to puffy cheeks/rounded faces. In actuality, this is simply
a swallowing error , most commonly seen in babies who suck le, rather than chew and

===== Page 54 =====

correctly swallow. We refer to this as cherubic cheeks. The buccinator muscle behave s like
any other muscle, if you use it, the muscle hypertrophies. If you don’t use it, the muscle
atrophies. In simple terms, use it or lose it. When s omeone breaks their arm, there’s a clear
size differential when they get the cast off in comparison with the opposing arm due to
inactivity. The same effect can occur in order to achieve hollow cheeks. Mike Mew taught
me, that we often overlook the ability  to NOT use a muscle. If you can achieve this with the
buccinator muscles, then naturally you will attain hollow cheeks. This visual effect is
amplified if the cheekbones are higher and the jaw is wider.
So how do you use the buccinator muscles less? The m ost common method can be found in
our swallowing technique. We swallow roughly 2,000 times per day. Get this wrong and it’s
going to have a large impact due to volume. Most people have retained an infantile suckle.
They use their buccinator muscles by putting too much food in their mouth and then by
sucking the food down their throat. The function of the buccinator muscle is only to keep
food in the mouth. If you put less food in your mouth, and then use the back of your throat
to swallow, you will deve lop hollow cheeks via muscle atrophy. Your mouth, cheeks,
anything but your throat should not be moving during each swallow.

Neck Exercises and Submental Deprivation

Orthotropics is life changing, but it misses out on one single component, the neck and
submental regions. The submental region is the area underneath our chin and jawline
before you reach the neck. If you feel this area and look down at your phone, you’ll feel how
relaxed these muscles become. This tells us a lot regarding why some men have s trong
jawlines, but excess skin creating the appearance of a double chin , the muscles simply aren’t
used enough  to create tightness.
There are upwards of 25 muscles within these regions, but they never get worked. Look at
the majority of combat athletes ( boxing/mma), they’re pretty good looking considering their
profession. Coincidently they’re also the only people alive who consistently train their neck
muscles in order to resist heavy strikes. The type of exercises required to improve these
areas  are ver y hard to describe in a book, therefore head over to the 1STMAN YouTube
channel and search “Neck Exercises.”

Modern Daily Habits

How someone gets to a position where they need help restoring their best bon e structure
comes from our daily habits. Master these and it’ll become effortless to achieve a good
facial structure and then improve upon it y ear after year :
• Stop looking down at your phone for hours

===== Page 55 =====

• Stop slouching
• Keep your mouth closed when looking at a screen
• Strengthen your jaw using mastic gum or falim gum
• Keep your teeth together, lips together and tongue on the roof of your mouth
• Daily neck and submental exercises
• Swallow with the back of your throat and take smaller bites
• Chew your food 30 times bef ore swallowing
• Adjust all screens and chair positions so your chin is parallel for the majority of the
day at work
• Make sure you’re breathing through your nose and not your mouth
• Don’t use things like straws where the buccinator is engaged


===== Page 56 =====

Semen  Retention & Porn Addiction

The quickest thing that can derail a young man is regular masturbation and porn addiction.
There’s a reason why most men don’t succeed until they’re in their 40’s. A man’s peak
earning  year is 48 on average. Of course,  this is a by-product  of years of work, the
compound effect etc, but also due to a loss in sex drive. Sex, the pursuit of sex, lust, the
desire to cheat, strip clubs, masturbation, distracti ons can come in many different formats
but it all stems from the same source. As we get older our sex drive diminishes and it
enables us to become more focused on our goals. If we were able to do this whilst having
high testosterone and energy levels as a young man then we’d be unstoppable, but very few
do. A 55 -year -old man earning £250k per year, could’ve earned that same money at 35 if he
had controlled his sex drive.

Sexual Transmutation

Sexual transmutation is the only feasible method of transferring  sexual energy to something
more meaningful without suffering. Many try to create a damming effect when they first
find out about semen retention.  But it always ends with them  failing as sexual energy is too
much to hold back. The better strategy is to fin d something to occupy that energy. See it as
a luxury, a gift, an opportunity to get things done. When retaining semen, after around 2
weeks one needs less sleep, has more energy, increased motivation and has a higher level of
creative thinking. If a suppl ement existed providing  the mentioned benefits, it would be
worth a fortune. Semen retention may be the closest thing to the fictional drug NZT in the
film Limitless. The smart method is to make the most of this power, not waste it due to
sexual frustratio n.
Some outlets for your sexual energy include;
• Gym
• Entrepreneurship
• Art
• Conversation
• Dance
• Writing
• Cooking
• Cleaning
The possibilities are vast depending on your goals. Do you want a clean house, or do you
want to be a billionaire? The range of outlets for  your sexual energy are really this broad.
One trick I use whenever I feel overly sexually aroused , is to burn off energy. This could be a

===== Page 57 =====

workout, a walk, you could even drive. For me, physical outlets work best, then I focus on
the mental and creative outlets once I have my sexual energy under control.

Dopamine & Porn Addiction

High speed internet and porn are still very new when it comes to human history. I believe
we’re finally seeing the first generational issues arising within people unde r the age of 35.
High speed internet was made publicly available in 1999, a 35 -year -old would’ve been 14
when this occurred , an age where the brain is rapidly forming into the future man you’ll
become. Having access to high -speed  porn at this age is extrem ely dangerous for brain
development and dopamine saturation.
Dopamine is a neurotransmitter that acts as a reward chemical produced in our brains. If
you win a game, have your first kiss or pass your driving test, this chemical is produced and
recognised b y the dopamine receptors giving you a good feeling. The good feeling acts like a
loop, it’s the brains way of saying “we liked that, why don’t you do it some more ”?
Alcohol, drugs and gambling are forms of extreme dopamine increasing activities. This is
why people get so addicted. The rush received from being 8 beers and 5 shots down makes
you feel good, therefore some people cannot handle it and keep coming back for more ,
when others figure out how to moderate themselves. Porn has become a version of these
addictive habits, but it goes under the radar which makes it very dangerous. An alcoholic
will show obvious signs of requiring help, as will a drug addict. A gambling addict will appear
fine on the outside, but their bank account will sooner or later reve al all. Someone who has
a porn addiction can drift through life for decades without anyone noticing the problem,
even themselves.
Porn and masturbation are widely accepted as normal in most parts of the world. Telling
someone you have a porn addiction woul d likely receive a carefree response of “doesn’t
everyone”? In the early days of porn addiction studies, a control group of men who didn’t
watch porn couldn’t be found, which tells you everything you need to know. Think about
smoking in the 1960’s. Everyon e smoked because big corporations told them there were
multiple benefits. Decades later cancer rates reached an all-time  high and people became
suspicious. The same is happening with porn in the current era. Porn is becoming the
modern -day smoking epidemic , but it’s a silent killer.
Porn addicts begin to isolate themselves, develop into incels and start seeing their social
skills diminish. They are happier being alone in their room, than in a public environment
with real people. Japan  for example,  have a major problem on their hands , due to their
youth opting to watching anime porn over having real sex.
Many believe this is due to dopamine saturation. A scenario similar to that of an alcoholic
where the previous buzz is not enough. An alcoholic may start with beer at night and
eventually graduate to straight whisky for breakfast. In porn, this same effect  is called The

===== Page 58 =====

Coolidge Effect. The Coolidge Effect is defined as a renewed interest in sex when different
partners are introduced. Examples include a man getting bored of having sex with his
beautiful wife after 10 years of being together. He either cheat s, they have a three -way,
they add toys, she wears lingerie or perhaps she changes her hair colour. Another example
would be post ejaculation, a man simply losing that same sexual desire he had for the
woman pre -ejaculation . instead his thoughts move over to a new woman. He would be de -
motivated to have sex again with the current woman, however if a new woman walked into
the room, he would be ready to go in an instant. The Coolidge Effect is associated with
mammals, and is thought to fulfil the purpose of m ating diversity. If you inseminate 100
women, all with different features and DNA, then you increase the chances of your offspring
surviving.
Porn takes advantage of this effect, but to an extreme level. Even the best -looking  man
cannot acquire a beautiful  sexual partner within 10 seconds and move onto the 2nd within 5
minutes, the third within 10 and the fourth and fifth under half an hour. Porn allows any
man to “have sex with” beautiful women around the clock, facing zero rejection,
competition or standa rd daily challenges associated with such endeavours. This creates
somewhat of a hyper Coolidge Effect, where any man can sleep with as many different
women as he chooses back -to-back  or in a compilation prior to ejaculation.

Dopamine Saturation  Impact

Once a man enters this form of addictive behaviour and abuses The Coolidge Effect , he will
inevitably experience dopamine saturation. This leads to a lack of motivation, drive and very
often depression. This occurs due to the simple fact that nothing can com pare to “sex” or
what your brain perceives as sex . If you’re soaking your brain in dopamine, then the
receptors decrease in sensitivity. This leads to not feeling as good as normal when you
achieve previously rewarding tasks. Dopamine is responsible for making you feel alive and
awake, this is why so many porn addicts never have any energy to do anything.  Scoring a
goal won’t be as exciting, meeting real women feels like a waste of time, working hard on a
lifetime goal simply cannot compar e to porn. This is why men under 35 are really struggling
to find their feet , and cannot figure out why the y lack the motivation to get up and take on
the world. It’s creating an internal battle where they want to do something with their lives,
but every t ime they attempt to change , porn drags them back in as it’s instant gratification
and easier to reach.

Instant Gratification

A term many of you may be familiar with when it comes to success, but perhaps not
something you would associate with porn and mas turbation. I have often said on the

===== Page 59 =====

1STMAN YouTube channel that porn and masturbation are forms of giving up. If you
compare both options available to us as men you can see why.
Option 1: Struggle for years, working on yourself, dealing with rejection, liv ing through
poverty, tough times and learning lessons along the way. Finally getting to a point in your
life where you gain the upper hand and the most attractive women are now taking notice of
you. Sex in this scenario is earned and will feel more rewardi ng when it arrives.
Option 2: You want an attractive woman in your life, you try for 2 weeks , get rejected and
turn to porn. Your brain doesn’t know the difference, believes you’re the man, getting all
the girls and tells you to keep doing this easier meth od.
Porn and masturbation are cheat codes. You don’t learn a single lesson, it doesn’t make you
a better man, and in fact, it pushes you further away from your dreams than ever before.
Anything easy tends not to be worth doing. Remember how I told you abou t the male
struggle at the beginning of this book, acquiring sex from the women you actually want is no
different. It takes time, the male journey is a slow burner, but it’s a constant rise if you’re
willing to work at it. We don’t experience instant fame like a beautiful  young  woman does ,
patience in the form of sexual transmutation will push your potential to new heights.


===== Page 60 =====

Take Major Risks Young & Plant Seeds

Something you will hear time and time again whilst growing up is; “Go and enjoy yourself
while you’re young”.
This comes from the same people who will also say; your school years are the best of your
life. I’m sorry? The years where we’re too young to drive, earn real money, think for
ourselves, sleep with the most beautiful women, st art a business, we’re awkward and still
trying to figure life out as our parents pressure us to take the safe options? These are
certainly not the best years of our lives. For men the best years of our lives are 30 to 50. We
have youth, freedom, independen ce, money, we’re taken seriously, we have a larger frame,
women find us more attractive and our brains have developed to a point where life is easy
to navigate. However, in order to experience all of the above, one must take major risks
when young and plan t the correct seeds.

The Defensive Mindset Fallacy

“PROPERTY, that’s where the money is”. I don’t know about the rest of you, but I heard this
2,000 times growing up. Every single adult sang from the same hymn sheet. “Pay off your
debts, get on the prope rty ladder as early as possible and get a secure job”.
These are what I like to call defensive moves.  A secure job means a secure wage, and secure
wages are average, so that’s out of the window. Paying off debts is a good idea, but only if
they’re a small portion of your total wealth. Most people will save £40k and pay off their
entire Uni debt, then even worse they will celebrate this and brag about it. This is a gigantic
mistake. Very rarely in life do we have a large sum of money available :

Uni loan  - Alcohol
Living at home with parents  during 1st job – Paying off Uni Loan, buying a car, saving for
mortgage
Years and years of working and saving  – Marriage  & kids
Peak earning years  – Bigger house and car for kids
Inheritance – Pay mortgage off

Absolutely  nobody understands these defensive moves for what they are. I spoke earlier in
this book about the Pay check trap and how it keeps you exactly where you are , how a large
sum of money all at once is the key to making things happen. Yet when peopl e come into

===== Page 61 =====

contact with these large sums, they play the most defensive moves they can think of. Let’s
use getting on the property ladder as the perfect example;
Most will tell you that a home is a great investment, but unless you’re renting it out, it’s a
liability. That house is lovely but it costs you to be there. If you were to rent it, it’s an extra
income, but it’s nothing mind -blowing. Anyone who’s ever made millions from property has
built a giant portfolio, usually from a large primary  income or vi a a well -timed housing
boom . The average rental property will make you around $200 to $400 per month. It’s a
second income and all money is welcome at the start, but over 10 years this equates to
$24,000 - $48,000. In short, you’d make more money getting a  2nd job that pays $5,000 per
year. Granted you’d have more time, however there are maintenance costs not included
here which may impact you greatly. Everyone jumps to property like it’s the end all and be
all of riches, in reality it’s a very defensive mo ve. I see the logic, people will always need
homes, it has a resale value, I might make money , but at worst  I’ll get equal value in return
regardless of inflation.  But no one has ever made a fortune playing it safe. Instead of putting
$30k into a property,  why not put $5k in Ethereum for example and keep $25k in the bank
ready for the next opportunity. Although nothing is certain, and most experts are far from it,
Ethereum experts predict the coin to be worth $100,000, this is a dramatic increase from
today ’s price of $695 . You may be reading this  10 years into the future and Ethereum no
longer exists, but the point is still the same, just take a look at the difference in gains;
Rental property over 10 years  on a $30k investment : $48,000  = $18k profit divided by 10
years = $1.8k per year (Not including maintenance)
Ethereum potential returns  by 2030  using a $5k investment : $719k
Even if Ethereum collapsed the day after you bought it, you’d still have $25k remaining. The
property investmen t simply isn’t worth the time it’ll take to generate a life changing
amount. People who put all of their money into a mortgage/property they’re going to live in
as an investment, are pretty much just putting their money in the bank and paying rent. This
is why banks get richer whilst the average person with zero financial knowledge yoyo’s
around trying to figure out their next move.

Taking Risks

A young man with zero ties has the world at his feet. Sadly, most will choose marriage,
mortgage and children prior to 30 and throw everything away. We’ll go into detail regarding
these subjects later in this book. If men could live twice, I believe a very small perce ntage
would choose this path the 2nd time around. Men in their 40’s and 50’s who are disgruntled
or struggling always point towards their youth and regret the decisions they should’ve
made. They now understand in hindsight that taking risks when you have z ero
responsibilities is the key to getting ahead. A young man can invest €50k in a business,
another €10k in stocks and €2k in personal development without having to worry about
paying rent, the mortgage, feeding his kids, getting grief from his wife or lo sing the college

===== Page 62 =====

fund. A young responsibility  free man , has the ability to roll the dice a couple of times
before age begins to destroy the romance. But one correct roll is all you require. By safely
investing into a mortgage and marrying early, followed b y children, you’ll simply never know
what might have been. It’s key to the entire teachings of this book that you take as many
calculated risks as possible when young. Start a business, invest in opportunities with a low
buy-in and huge upside when no one else will, invest in your mind and skillset. One of these
choices could be the trigger that changes your life. No one ever made it playing things safe,
but there will come a time in your life where you’re forced to. The trick is, by the time you
reach that  period of your life, money will never be a problem ever again.

Planting Seeds

We wildly overestimate what we can do in a year and dramatically underestimate what we
can achieve in 10 years. Everyone wants things yesterday; nobody wants to become
succes sful/get in shape or whatever else slowly. Speed is the name of the game in today’s
world and it’s killing so many young men. Men do not understand male and female
timelines for one, something we’ll get to later. Secondly, they are busy keeping up with the
Joneses in order to compete in the here and now. If you cannot sleep with the prettiest
women today, if you cannot afford a brand -new car, if you cannot live in a penthouse, then
why are you trying to pretend? You’re only hurting yourself.
The smartest me n plot 10 years ahead. They may sit there at 25 with nothing, but everyday
visualise the steps require d to be top dog at 35 and beyond. They’re planting seeds for
what’s to come, they couldn’t care about today. The smartest men let others chase after
women , stretch their finances to the brink and waste time “living” while they’re working.
They know that today’s  suffering is tomorrows victory. A man who gives up his entire teens
and 20’s will be sat in a beach house on a Tuesday, sipping wine with a model at  35, while
the men who enjoyed life a little too much in their 20’s are now playing catch up from a
position they really don’t want to be in, with debts, high bills, a family and no spare time to
change things.
Plant seeds as early as possible and think 10  years ahead , minimum. Water and care for
those seeds in the form of investment via time and money. It won’t be until years later
where you’ll benefit, but your future self will be extremely thankful. From there you can
make whatever life choices you decide, but planting seeds w ill prevent problems further
down the line.

The Marshmallow Test

For anyone who hasn’t heard of this test, multiple studies have been carried out to find a
correlation between willpower and success. During the test, a marshmallow is placed on the

===== Page 63 =====

table in front of a single child. That child is then told, we’re going to leave the room for 15
minutes. If you can resist the marshmallow during that time, when we get back you can
have a second marshmallow. Seems like a pretty simpl e task and for just 15 minut es, any
adult could pass this challenge with ease. However, the children’s results vary. The results of
the studies found that the children who resisted the marshmallow and got a second, were
far more successful on average in adult life. This speaks volume s regarding our ability to
sacrifice in the short term in exchange for long term rewards. Do I buy a new £10k car now
and make it easier to get a girlfriend, or do I experience the shame of catching the bus, so
that I can invest that money and buy a Bugatt i when I’m 36?  You may want something
different, but the process is the same, whether it’s a marshmallow or a luxury hyper -car.


===== Page 64 =====

Sacrifice Your Weekends & Ignore Women for Years

Although touched upon in previous chapters, these two subjects require their  own  in-depth
analysis.
We discussed how working after you arrive home from your 9 to 5 job can be such an
advantage, but naturally you’ ll be tired. Throw in the gym, house chores and of course the
big one…sleep, and it’s very hard to find those 4/5 hours required to make a difference. In
reality, the average person will be able to find maybe an hour or two each night after work
to get something done. This will have an effect, but it certainly isn’t enough to change the
game.

Weekends are the Key

There’s simply no way around it, you either work all weekend or you keep going back to the
job you hate. Working on weekends or doing something productive towards your dream on
weekends, will be the difference between becoming a millionaire entrepreneur or  not,
climbing the corporate ladder and becoming MD or being the next breakout music artist.
Regardless of your dream, the weekend is your promise land. There’s simply not enough
time throughout the week to make a difference.
If you are serious about succe ss, you must follow these rules regarding the weekend.
1. Get to bed early on Friday night 10pm at the  latest  – The fresher you feel the better
you’ll perform
2. Avoid alcohol all weekend  – You don’t want to waste money, lose your shape or ruin
the following day
3. Perform 12 hours of work on Saturday and another 12 hours on Sunday  – These
kinds of hours are mandatory in order to make up for the lack of hours throughout
the week
4. Avoid parties and friends  – There will be time for this in the future
5. Get all house chor es/food shopping done Thursday after work  – This removes all
distractions and lost time
6. Wake up at 5am on Saturday and Sunday and remain in your work schedule body
clock  – By remaining in your 9 to 5 work schedule, your body can seamlessly
transition from weekdays to weekends, which prevents fatigue
7. Shower and put -on clean clothes including shoes – Even if you’re working from
home, you shouldn’t sit in your PJ’s and slippers, it sends the wrong message and will
encourage laziness. Shoes are important as the y prevent you from getting
comfortable and relaxing

===== Page 65 =====

Following these rules will  grant you the greatest impact. Your dream should be taken as
seriously as your 9 to 5 job. On Sunday night you ; meal prep, you wash your clothes, shine
your shoes etc for the first day back. Why wouldn’t you apply the same effort and
professionalism to something you intend to do for the rest of your life?

Ignoring Women

By suggesting you should ignore women for a n extended period of time, I am by no means
implying that women are the problem or the barrier to your success. I’m merely highlighting
how tempting they can be and how their sex appeal will have you making poor choice after
poor choice as you’re blinded b y beauty.
Men and women want different things. However, sex has convinced men that they want the
same things women do. Marriage, kids at a young age prior to suitable financial stability, a
mortgage that leaves you both without a single penny. These featur es of modern life may
sound great as your partner dresses them up, but they’re what I call derailers. Life lesson;
Regardless , if the woman is a 1 or a 10, she will eventually want the same things. These
things cost money and they require a giant time sacr ifice, useful tools you cannot afford to
give up whilst on your journey.
Secondly, dating and the pursuit of sex. Fun, by all means, but again very destructive if not
carried out in moderation. The majority of successful men , side-lined women for years at a
time , in order to focus purely on their own selfish goal. Now you should do the same. Pick a
3 – 5-year  period, go female free, or male if you’re gay and think about nothing other than
your next move. With weeks already shy on time, the last thing you ne ed are 3 dates lined
up over the weekend, or your girlfriend’s birthday.
This is why good -looking men rarely succeed. It’s not impossible of course, but the
temptation of achieving lives best prize with little to no effort can be too hard to resist. A 6ft
4 Herculean man with strong features isn’t going to be lonely. Simply walking down  the
street may end with 5 new numbers to call. How can this man then go home and agree to
remain single or celibate for an extended period of time? Especially if these wome n are
attractive. In short, most attractive men don’t resist and they end up overindulging in their
youth, which enables the less genetically fortunate men to take over as the years pass. It’s
the typical high -school quarterback story.  He goes from serving  spirals to serving fast food
customers. When things are too easy, we tend to get lazy. The men with a reason to get
better , end up achieving the greatest feats , this is why I believe being short, bald or ugly
work in a man’s favour. Instead of resting on his laurels, he seeks out improvement and
attempts to make other areas of his life better as a form of compensation.  It also acts as an
early warning system for men looking to become outlier males. As you rise up that ladder
and your options because sexier  and more beautiful, be aware of the potential pitfalls
associated with overindulging.


===== Page 66 =====

Outlier Male NOT Alpha Male

Before leaving the execution section , it’s vital that you understand where you’re headed
and why.  Alpha males may have died out thousands of years ago according to many
evolutionary psychologists. The theory is; The most dominant men weren’t liked by the
groups and therefore forced out or killed off. As we’ve evolved to live without violence the
need for a typical alpha male has diminished. It’s also a very limited and misleading title.
A large 6ft 4 and strong man could be called an alpha male for no other reason than the
physical. This same man could be broke, lacking intelligence, uncultured and laz y, yet his
size and strength earns him the title of alpha male. With people believing that alpha males
are the top of the tree, the criteria for reaching the top , surely  has to be more challenging ?
This is why I created the term “Outlier Male” a couple of years ago to describe the true
hierarchical kings.

What is an Outlier Male?

The term renaissance man was given to those with high levels of intelligence and were good
at multiple things. The outlier male is an extension of the renaissance man but more fitted
to modern needs. A simple example of an outlier male might be;
• Healthy
• High level of fitness
• Good muscle size
• Intelli gent
• Successful
• Cultured
• Well -travelled
• Articulate
• Leader
• Self-motivated
• Focused
• Disciplined
• Well dressed
• Good a ppearance
This doesn’t necessarily mean he has to be the best in all categories, instead, very much like
the straight 7 system, he just has to b e above average in all areas collectively. This, unlike an
alpha male makes him multi -dimensional. An alpha male can be good at one thing, ie sports
and sit at the top of any high school hierarchy. In adult life however we require a different
variant of so cial ranking. The strongest guy might be the poorest, which is a very rude

===== Page 67 =====

awakening during the high school to adult life switch. Try buying a house, car, or attracting a
partner with strength, it won’t get you far  on its own . 10,000 years ago, strength and the
ability to protect was enough, but as discussed in the Darwinian Male chapter, what was
once praised is now expected. Women want men who can cater to multiple areas of life.
They require a beast in the bedroom , a profess ional businessman during the day and a
Casanova on weekends . This is why I promote so heavily to focus on success and fitness in
your earliest years. Once these boxes are ticked and maintained, you can effortlessly
achieve anything else on the list. Even i ntelligence for example; Having money will enable
you to take a few years off in the pursuit of higher education. You could travel the world,
have a family, meditate 24 hours per day with monks, it doesn’t matter! The point is, having
money and being healt hy opens up a world of opportunities.

Dominance vs Shining Light

An alpha male pride s himself on being dominant over others, or intimidating those around
him. There’s certainly a time and place for this, I would know, as I have analysed the body
languag e of many “alpha males” on YouTube and praised certain traits. However, I believe
moving forward, outlier males will take the place of alpha males and make them obsolete.
Just as modern humans made Neanderthals appear terribly designed, I believe outlier m ales
will do the same. The difference between an outlier male and alpha male will be so
apparent, it will border on humiliation. The days of the big, powerful idiot are over.
Everyone knows a guy like this, a bully who couldn’t find two brain cells to rub together ,
holds old school views and always believes he right . The modern era has no place for th ese
types of men, who could once pass as alpha males. I believe the body language will remain,
as it’s hard to reinvent such an ancient language, but the trait s, mannerisms, behaviour and
ideology will fail to keep up.
Outlier males are shinning lights to others. They want to succeed but not belittle others.
They want to be in great shape and then use it to help those less physically able. They want
to earn a l ot of money and then be an example to the youth of what’s possible. This is the
type of man who will reign at the top of the modern social hierarchy for the next 10,000
years, just as the alpha male did throughout the last. It’s important for you to know t he
difference. I hope to create role models with this book not assholes. The ideas behind
ignoring women, or being selfish when young, is due to limited time. Those who make
statements such as; “I don’t want to be rich, I’d rather help people and be a good  person”
have no idea how much money would aid this process. You cannot help others until you’ve
first helped yourself. They tell you to put your own gas mask on first during flight safety
videos as you’re useless passed out.


===== Page 68 =====

Part 3 Navigation
27 is the Most Dangerous Age for Men

90% of relationships that start before 30 fail.

We have now reached the best part of a man’s life. The mentality is in place, he’s thinking
correctly. His lifestyle is concrete  and he’s executing on his plans, watching his dream life
unfold before his very eyes. This is where the key to success and a good male life is all about
navigation via timing.
Timing is essential to everything a man does. A woman could reach 18, be the ho ttest
woman in any room, marry a millionaire and get pregnant. She doesn’t have to worry about
the when, women only have to worry about the how.  Of course, there are women who
become career driven, reach 35 and realise all the high value men are seeking 22 -year -old
women. But for the majority of females, it’s a pretty easy pathway. Look good, attract a
high -level man, use desirability to acquire a mortgage, marriage and offspring. Of course,
women’s lives are not limited to this, there are many superstar en trepreneurs who can
balance motherhood, or CEO’s who represent the highest earner in their family. But it’s hard
to find a woman on planet Earth who doesn’t dream of marrying the man of her dreams,
starting a family and having a big house to do all of this  in.
Men on the other hand have a dilemma that I don’t believe has been answered for modern
life. When should I settle down, get married, have kids, get a house? When do men peak?
How do I find the one? Should I settle down with a woman my age or younger? All of these
questions will be answered in this section, as we navigate through the rough waters of an
outlier male.

The Value Tables are Tur ning

As discussed prior, young women will hold an enormous amount of value without having to
work for it. Th is enables them to acquire better jobs, high level partners, get into exclusive
clubs, you name it, they can achieve it at this age. Women will hit 16 and start seeing more
and more men looking their way, once they reach 18 this value begins to peak and will
never be higher than when they’re 22 -23. By 27 the value switch has begun, men have had
11 years to catch up and start seeing the first signs of the male advantage. A 27-year -old
man is full of potential, he’s more mature, he’s on the cusp of higher earni ngs, his body is
beginning to fill out, he values assets  and life progression over alcohol and drunk nights and
women begin to take notice. Something women like to do is, find a man who’s about to be
great and grow together. This strategy works perfect ly around 27 , as her value begins to

===== Page 69 =====

drop for the first time as his takes off. This means they’re of equal value, which logically
creates an equal trade -off that is beneficial for both parties.
However, 27 is a dangerous age for a man. It’s the age at which mo st men report having the
most sex of their lives with multiple partners , but also  roughly  the age a man is most likely
to meet a life partner. This  leads to the inevitable. As the man’s value rises and more
attractive women enter his life, he will reach hi s celling. A man’s celling is the best possible
life or option he can imagine. In terms of women, a man who has experienced decades of
being “the nerd” or “being a virgin” will have this imprinted in his mind. Therefore, when a
6, 7 or an 8 comes along and  shows an interest, he’s fully ready to give up everything for this
woman and begin building a life together. You can’t really blame him. Imagine going 10
years with little to no attention, then suddenly, pretty girls are throwing themselves at you.
You’re  going to feel like the man, because this is your celling, you have no possible way of
knowing what comes next.

9 Years of Destruction

To make this simple to understand and to avoid in your own life, I’ll create a timeline
explaining how this happens. On average men;

- Have the most sex of their lives with multiple partners at 27
- Meet their first life partner at 27
- Move in with their life partner at 28
- Marry at 30
- Get a mortgage with their life partner at 32
- Have their first child at 33
- Have their second child at 36

This might sound more romantic than destructive. But let’s  analyse this traditional timeline.
A man is having the most sex of his life at 27, enjoying multiple women, freedom and
looking forward to the future. A 7 walks into the bar and changes his life. She sees him as
the man she needs to move her own life goals forward and takes charge of the future
direction. Many men think they’re in control, but in reality, the woman is dictating the
direction you sail in. How many men h ave claimed their life goals are to be a Husband,
Father  and homeowner? In contrary how many women have claimed their life goals are to
marry the man of her dreams, have 2 or 3 children and live in a large house in A or B?  Men
hit 27 and experience the fir st sprinkle of what’s to come as they reach the male advantage,
only to fall at the first hurdle and sacrifice their own life goals in exchange for the woman’s.
We then see a very sad situation, where men convince themselves and those around them
that this  is the life they wanted. They work night and day to provide, never have any spare
time, all of their money dries up, yet they continue down this path until something clicks.

===== Page 70 =====

One day the man wakes up disgruntled, frustrated and angry at life as he starts t o realise
how stuck he is. He loves his kids and his Wife, but was never able to live his own life or
experience his own peak like his Wife did when she was younger. At around 36/37, when a
man should be at his highest point of social value, this man is st ruggling to pay the bills, yet
the demand doesn’t stop. A bigger house, a new car, holidays, school fees and date nights
cut through his bank account leaving dust for his dreams. Truth is, this man gave up on his
own dreams a long time ago, he’s simply bee n living on autopilot for the last 9 years. It’s
usually at this stage when men have affairs/start recognising their own high value coming in
to play , as more attractive women show an interest. He may still love his Wife, but naturally
a 36 -37-year -old wom an will not look like she did at 27. Many women of this age are
beautiful, but very rarely is a woman more attractive than her younger self.
Let’s take a look at the cost of these 9 years;

- £1350 per year dating – Over 9 years = £12,150
- Average rental property - £500 per month, paying half £250 = £12,000  over 4 years
- Marriage average cost – Wedding, ring, honeymoon = £30,000
- Average mortgage deposit cost - £50,000, paying half (hopefully) = £25,000 , plus
ongoing mortgage payments  - £670 per month over the 4 -year period  = £32,160  –
halved = £16,080
- Cost of raising a child from birth to 18 = £250,000  per child , the average couple has 2
children, therefore half is £250,000

The grand total comes  to a staggering £345,230 .
Now let’s not forget, this number comes about after tax. As in you have already been taxed
on your earnings and the £345,230 is coming out of the money you have left. It means you’ll
roughly have to earn around half a million. Granted, the 18 years doesn’t fall between the 9 -
year period, but it’s money that is guaranteed to go. A house can be sold and thus payments
will stop, but paying for your kids is money that’s as good as gone the moment you earn it.
The average man also sp ends around £212,000 in his life on cars. Although not directly
associated with his Wife or Family, there’s a large chance that at least two of those
purchases are family cars , as the family grows from 2 to 3 to 4 and perhaps beyond.  The
worst part of all this, is that many men will not go halves on these purchases. In an ideal
world both the woman and the man front 50/50, but equality hasn’t reached this area of life
yet which is a funny coincidence. Many men will go to work and fund everything during the
years of Motherhood. From 33 to 38 it’s possible that the man will bankroll  everything so his
Wife can stay at home with the kids until the youngest is old enough to go to school.

Missed Opportunity


===== Page 71 =====

£345,230 spent on life goals that weren’t yours is a re al kick in the teeth, as is the sheer
amount of time spent acquiring these things. But what hurts the most is the regret. A 40 -
year -old divorced man will sit there and contemplate what on Earth just happened and how
it happened. He begins imagining what he  could’ve done with all that money and time
during th e same 9-year  period and where he’d be now.
This is the 2nd major different between men with great lives and men who are simply shells.
The first differen ce is what you choose to do in your teens and 20’ s. The second  is how you
choose to spend all the money you’re earning , now that the financial side is coming
together. Many men will reach 30, see their income skyrocket and get carried away. If a man
can use these key years from 30 to roughly 35-37, he will never have to work another day in
his life. The first 12 years of a man’s life from 18 to 30 is a struggle. The next 5 -7-years
should be high earning. Reinvest this money and reap the rewards. Thr ow it all away on
female life goals and you may nev er get another chance to save this much until your kids
leave home  around 50 years old , once your male peak ends.
Is there a right time to have children, get married, get a home etc? Of course, and we’ll
break that down over the next few chapters.  But reme mber this; There’s no reset button.
You only live once and getting the timing right is essential, more so for men than women.
You can’t have 3 kids, get married, purchase a home, get divorced, lose half your net worth
and then start over. Regret exists bec ause the person knows there’s nothing they can do.
Whatever happened in the past cannot be changed, be very, very careful about making
major life choices. Don’t be so eager to jump into love, marriage, family etc just because she
looks good naked. The men that make decisions based off emotions will suffer long term.

Men Never Get the Life They Want

Strangely, I don’t actually blame women for any of this. I don’t see anything wrong with
what women are doing. They’re following their dreams and natural life  purpose with
relentless enthusiasm. If the man hasn’t seen what’s playing out, then he cannot have any
complaints. A lot of men call women gold diggers, I don’t agree. I simply believe women
have a natural instinct to leech from men. Women accidently drai n men of their funds via
their unrelenting pursuit of life goals. The woman believes she’s doing what’s right, and
since the man hasn’t said otherwise, it must be what he also wants. She pushes for children,
marriage, mortgage and a family car because it’s  logical for her. If the man doesn’t speak up
to voice his concerns then it’s his fault. Instead, most men are led by the fear of scarcity and
losing regular sex from a beautiful woman, rather than sacrificing in the short term for a
better life longer ter m.
If the man does not voice his concerns or take charge, the onslaught will continue. Just
consider the layout of any married couple’s home. Even though they went halves, or in a
few circumstances the man paid the lions share, the woman begins to take cha rge. She
designs each room, requests refurbishments, takes ownership of the bedroom, bathroom,

===== Page 72 =====

living room/lounge, kitchen and other luxuries. The man is then relegated to the attic, cellar
or garage. We’re handed the cold and dusty rooms to create a man c ave, gym, office or
whatever else we’re limit to, as long as we stay out of the house.



===== Page 73 =====

“The One” Doesn’t Exist

One way to make it easier for men to resist the 9-year  destruction is to snap them out of the
Disney fairy -tale they live within. Love is rea l, the chemicals produced prove that, but the
notion of the one is a fallacy created by big business. If you believe that a woman is the one,
and there’s no one else for you  that can match her, you will have a scarce mindset and act
erratically in order to secure and keep her. This includes spending $30k on a wedding or $4k
on an engagement ring as you drop the knee and a violinist costing you $200 per hour
strokes away.

Convenience is More Important Than Love

What we call true love , or “the one” in films and fairy tales, is nothing more than a
preferential sequence of tick boxes that benefit our own lives. Richard Dawkins once spoke
about the selfish gene. An example of the selfish gene would be a black widow mating with
the male so she can e at him and feed him to the kids. In humans it’s far better hidden. A
man may buy a woman a nice gift and take her out for lunch. Seems nice. But there’s a
hidden agenda. Perhaps the man has noticed the woman has wide hips and large breasts.
His subconsciou s brain recognises a good mate choice and better health for his children.
Therefore, he treats the woman well in order to convince her to be with him. On the surface
he appears caring, in reality he’s acting in his own interests. In other words, the selfis h gene.
Men and women are equally guilty of doing this, especially when it comes to finding the
one.
The one is simply, someone who was born within a reasonable year to you, in the same
area, or in an area you move to, who 90% of the time happens to be sin gle at the same time
as you,  has a few similarities and is of equal social value. This could be wealth vs beauty for
example. Let’s test this theory;
Man 1 meets a woman who is of equal value to him. They are both ranked around average
on the social value scale. She lived locally, enjoyed salsa dancing and that’s where they met.
They have dressed the relationship up to be an alignment of the stars, otherwise how could
they possibly have been at the same venue on the same day, both having an interest in
salsa? In actuality it’s not very rare.
Man 2 decides to travel the world. He ends up in Argentina and joins a Salsa class to become
more cultured. Whilst there he sees the most beautiful Latin woman. Dark hair, dark eyes,
toned body, moves like the devil in a  red dress. He ends up marrying this woman and also
believes it was fate. How else could he have met this woman all the way across the other
side of the world?

===== Page 74 =====

If we were to show man 1, man 2’s life and give him the opportunity to swap, what do you
think h e would do? The romantics would like to believe he loves his Wife, but the majority
of men reading this know the truth . Man 1 would be speaking Spanish quicker than you can
say adios.
The point I’m making is that we’re all living within certain limits. Fi nancial limits,
geographical limits, attraction limits, and so on. We all attempt to make the best of our
options and one way to do that is to convince yourself that someone was the one, they
were always destined to be with you, it’s fate. This choice supp ortive bias protects us
against what might have been. It’s easier to believe your current partner is the one, than it
is to hop on a plane and roll the dice, or go back to being single in an attempt to find
someone better. This is why so many toxic relatio nships stay together so long. Both
individuals are fearful of losing something beneficial to their own lives, the perfect
embodiment of the selfish gene.
You simply cannot meet everyone on planet Earth. You couldn’t possibly live in every city of
the world , and there’s no way you’re sleeping with every woman alive before making a
decision on who you had the best chemistry with. Therefore, chances are, the perfect
person or persons for you were never found. Of course, there’s some logic in suggesting
that th e person who lives where you live will be most similar culturally etc and therefore the
relationship has a greater chance of working, therefore they were the one. But I would
argue  that the diversity of the world is so grand, one simply wouldn’t know what they
wanted until they experienced it. A man happily married in Maine would simply never know
if he’d be happier with a blonde Swedish woman living in Stockholm as he’ll never
experience this. Should he have a mid -life crisis and pack up backs tomorrow, in  a years’
time he may find he’s a completely different man with varied interests that are now better
suited to this Scandinavian bombshell.  He now has a new version of “the one” , which
creates two  and proves my theory.

How this Benefits Your Own Life

It’s very simple, you engage the logical part of your brain, you understand when love is
masked over convenience and remain single until your life is exactly where you’d like it to
be. At that point with more experience and knowledge of your preferences yo u can make a
more calculated decision. Again, it likely will not be “the one ”, but it may be very optimal to
your happiness and life. Too many men make life choices based on FOMO or emotions. It’s
better to understand these concepts, like love, become the master of them, then choose
when they’re allowed to come into your life. If you let your emotions sweep you off your
feet unexpectedly , you stop thinking clearly . It might feel euphoric, but that effect will
quickly wear off in 10 years when you have bills  up to your ears, your dreams washed away
and you’re stuck in a job you hate wondering where it all went wrong.  Never forget, just
because you’ve spent time with a woman, you’re not obligated to marry her, or give her the
life she dreams of. Many men feel pressured into going down this route with each woman

===== Page 75 =====

they meet. Women often use men for pleasure, loneliness etc, until they find the optimal
partner. Don’t be ashamed to enjoy the company of women in a respectful manner, then
pull the plug when it suits y ou. The men who claim this is cruel, are the same nice guys
having this shit done to them  time and time again. This is why I promote a 3 -month dating
strategy where things never get too serious, but you’re also not distracted by the constant
pursuit of new  women. When a man is in the later stages of the growth phase, around 30
and beyond, this strategy should be added to avoid an empty life simply filled with nothing
but work. I would potentially also encourage taking 1 day off per week end, or 2 if you’re
already wildly successful .


===== Page 76 =====

 Co-Habiting Destroys Relationships

Unless your partner is pregnant, do not even think about moving in together.
Moving in can seem fun. Unlimited sex, her walking around the house all day in lingerie,
cooking you steak and eggs, morning sex on the weekends, that’s the life. The life you won’t
be experiencing. Firstly, if you move in with a woman and expect this, you’re a fool.
Secondly, that’s fine because the complete opposite will take place. Once you’ve lived
together for  6 months/a year or so, the lust will fade away. You’ll still have sex, find each
other attractive, etc, but it won’t be in the same manner as before.
When you lived separately, you probably made a big effort each time you saw each other?
You likely used t he week days to make yourself look good for the weekend. An example
might be getting a haircut on Thursday night before seeing her on Friday night. She might
have got her nails done and shaved all over so you find her more attractive? Once you live
togethe r these little acts go out the window for two reasons. 1. You become comfortable
with each other . 2. Doing this every day is draining.
Once you live together, you’ll be smelling her morning breath. You’ll walk in on her taking a
smelly shit. She’ll go a we ek without shaving her legs and armpits. You’ll have to look after
her when she’s ill and looking her worst. Instead of going out for meals, you’ll have to do the
shopping or the house chores. This is all natural and personally I have no problem with it. I f
you want to be in a relationship, you have to expect this to some extent. However, one
thing you cannot account for is the mindset change. If you’re both seeing each other every
day at your worst, most tired, the negative moments etc, it will build a bon d, but it will also
destroy a lot of the sexual desire. It then doesn’t help that every woman you see on the
street is looking their best, which again is natural as you don’t live with them and they’ve
made an effort before stepping outside. But it makes a  curious mind wonder.
Prior to living together, you would clean the house, do the shopping, take the bins out and
so on, so that; 1. The house looked and smelt great for her arrival. 2. You’d have more time
together to do the nice stuff. Once you live tog ether, these tasks become daily routine.
Instead of watching a film and going for a romantic walk, you’re now carrying stinky bins
out, cleaning the floor and unblocking toilets.
On top of this, you have to consider your own personal time, tastes and finan ces. Living with
a woman will of course lead to shopping trips for sofas, curtains, candles and other pointless
items. Your bachelor pad, clean and sleek taste, will be replaced with something more
homely and Mum and Dad vibes. All of these changes will re quire a time investment. You
can hardly live with a woman and ignore her. She’s going to need; back massages, hours of
watching tv together, eating together, date nights, cuddles, hours of talking and so on.
Again,  these are further natural features that y ou should expect, I’m just asking if you’re
ready for this?

===== Page 77 =====

It seems unnecessary to apply this added stress and difficulty to a relationship when nothing
is forcing you to live together. Prior to any arrival of a child, it would be significantly easier
to have separate places. It adds variety . It gives both of you time apart . It enables both to
look their best for when you do meet . You can get the chores done in your own time. You’re
excited to see each other when the time comes around. There’s less argumen ts. Each can
design their home  how they see fit. You both have time to work on yourselves, rather than
falling into the lazy relationship pattern. A lot of men will skip the gym in favour of watching
tv with their partner on a Saturday morning. They’ll be more inclined to order takeaway,
rather than cook ing a healthy meal. They’ll work on their dream tomorrow because she’s
complaining that “you’re always working”. All of these little things add up when you live
together and leave a man further behind than he would’ve been in life. This is why, when
relati onships end, so many men struggle to find a partner as they’ve disregarded themselves
and their goals.


===== Page 78 =====

The Truth About Marriage

50% of marriages end in divorce and in 18% of marriages at least one person cheats.
I personally never understood marriage, o r at least the idea behind it. I couldn’t figure out
why two people would want to spend tens of thousands for an event that offers zero
upside. Think about it, an unmarried couple can;
• Have a joint bank account
• Have children
• Have sex
• Live together
• Change their surnames
• Love each other
• Stay loyal
• Go on holiday together
• Get a house/mortgage

Once the y’re married, they gain;
• A slight tax break
• Pictures for social media

I have raised this debate with hundreds of people. Each one will try to counteract the
argument and find themselves floundering with answers such as;
“It creates a stronger bond”
“It makes you more loyal”
“It’s nice for the kids”
Firstly, your kids will not care. This isn’t the 1600’s, no one’s calling your Son a bastard at
school. Seco ndly, if a woman tells you she wants to get married in order to be more loyal, or
build a stronger bond, you should run. She’s basically telling you that she’s been cheating,
but a ring will 100% help her to stop.
As a man there’s zero upside to marriage,  and even more cause for concern during divorce.
The entire system of marriage has been designed to keep men distracted, while wedding
planners, venues, dress makers, jewellers and lawyers take every penny the  man’s  ever
worked for. When you get older and discover the male advantage, the truth begins to reveal
itself. Marriage is in place to protect the diminishing beauty of the woman. In simple terms,
a contract exists that outlines;

===== Page 79 =====

In order to secure this woman’s current beauty, you must be willing to endure a heavy
financial penalty should you choose to leave her, or move onto a younger woman.

This isn’t too much of an issue if men and women lived on the same timelines, but we don ’t.
Men and women tend to get together at the same age, creating a misalignment of the
peaks. If a 10 -to-15-year age gap were in place, with the woman being 21 and the man
being 31 to 36, then the marriage would work perfectly. Both would experience their peak
at the same time, both would want children around the same time and the man would be
50 when her looks begin to fade , which lowers the chance of cheating /leaving. I understand
how chauvinistic  this comes across, but it’s a real -life problem that men f ace in every
relationship/marriage. They love their woman, but the attraction simply doesn’t exist
anymore no matter how hard they try. It simply doesn’t make sense to suffer at this point,
finding a younger woman for happiness shouldn’t be frowned upon as  much as it is.
One way to avoid the difficulties of marriage, is to avoid marriage all together. With zero
upside for the man, a few financial advantages for the woman, it’s safer to stay clear. Many
men will mention prenups, believing they’re a trump ca rd. But in actuality, once the woman
has lived with you for an extended period of time paying the mortgage, similar rules apply,
and once you’ve had kids, the exact same rules pretty much apply.
The only way around marriage, is to become sickeningly wealth y. This way, the cost of
divorce doesn’t impact you too greatly. Or alternatively, if you were to split but you weren’t
married, the child payments and lesser financial loss won’t cripple you.
One of the only decent arguments I’ve ever heard regarding marr iage was;
“If you expect her to have your baby, fall behind in her career and sit at home without an
income, then you should protect her financially.”
It’s a fair point, however, one could simply argue that the man using his income to prop up
the entire family during this time is equally as painful. Just imagine, the man works hard,
pays for everything during the first few years, the marriage ends and the woman takes 50%
if not more of the total assets. Not exactly a fair exchange. You could furthe r argue that it
would be harder for the woman to then seek employment/land a job with a large enough
salary due to the gap in her CV, but are employers anything like the ones in the movies? As a
business owner it wouldn’t cross my mind, in fact I would be more inclined to hire the
woman as she has a reason to work hard, providing for her kids.
The safest route for a man to navigate around marriage, is to work on himself young and
begin building, then use his early 30’s to really solidify his future, choose an appropriately
aged woman to have kids with (10-15-year differential) at an appropriate time, once all of
your initial life goals have been ticked and never get married, but be come  the world’s  best
Father and partner without needing a ring or ceremony to  prove it. It’s not about what you
do on a single day, there are plenty of abusive married men. As a man I’d rather pride
myself on my ability to provide and care for my family each and every day, marriage has
become nothing more than a circus  with a bad e nding.

===== Page 80 =====

Men’s Lives Start at 30, Stop Living Life in Reverse

Due to men living life in line  with female timelines, we have a scenario where many men are
living life in reverse. When they’re enjoying life, they should be grinding, and when they’re
grinding, they should have their feet up reaping the fruits of their labour. The media have
spun a n arrative for decades, whether it’s Sex in the City, Friends, Hello Magazine or
whatever else, bloggers, writers and directors have implanted a fear of 30 years old. The
mere mention of 30, strikes fear into anyone 26 and overs heart.

“If you’re not marrie d by 30 no one will ever want you”
“At 30 you’ll gain fat, lose your youthful appearance and looks”
“If you’re not successful by 30 you’re a loser”

These are common phrases we hear from those driving the fear. My concern is that they
haven’t taken into co nsideration the timeline of males. If a man’s life is over by 30 then it
isn’t much of a life. In our teens and 20’s we’re awkward, we’re broke, struggle to attract
women and make a relentless number of mistakes. If it gets worse beyond 30, I don’t really
see any point in existing. Luckily this isn’t true. The narrative we’re all afraid of holds true for
women not men, but women have an early peak without having to work for it, therefore
everyone gets their time in the limelight. As a woman, getting to 30 a nd being single is a
concern, as a woman gaining weight at 30 is a real issue, as a woman achieving success
beyond 30 becomes tougher due to many companies pushing you up the corporate ladder if
you look great in a pencil skirt , which I don’t agree with bu t understand why .
As men , life doesn’t start until 30. Sadly , due to the media, most men have 30 in the back of
their mind as the finishing line and it creates short term decision making. I have told you
time and time again in this book and on my YouTube channel, patience is a man’s greatest
strength, because we have time prior to our peak. Not to mention our peak is also longer
lasting, up to 30 years with the correct lifestyle. This mentality is forcing men to make some
of the following mistakes;

• Seek o ut get rich quick schemes
• Get married too early
• Have children too early
• Take steroids
• Live while they’re young and waste their best investment years  drinking and partying
• Disregard their fitness as they believe it will be gone by 30 anyway

===== Page 81 =====

Most of these men get to 30, feel no different and realise they messed up. Their energy
levels are still high, their muscle mass and bone mass have peaked, even if they are carrying
extra body fat due to lifestyle, and the women they feared missing out on are now chasing
them. No one told these men than they were living in reverse. Instead, they were
encouraged to play the short game, unload everything they had in the first 2 or 3 rounds
and now they’d stuck wondering what comes next with zero momentum.
Mom entum is a great motivator. Without it a male life feels meaningless. You build
momentum in your teens, 20’s and early 30’s. Just take a look at any man in Hollywood.
They begin their career missing out on role after role. They continue working hard
throug hout their 20’s adding to their CV and experience. By 30 they begin to find their niche
and put points on the board, creating a strong foundation for a leading male role. At 35,
twinned with a body transformation, they become the new Captain America, Thor or
Batman. Acting has always been this way, men in their late 30’s and 40’s land the best roles,
this is why male actors hav e successful lasting careers, they’ve been planning this route
since they were 16 because everyone in the industry told them to do s o. If more people
were to inform men in the rest of the population to do the same, the number of success
stories would be astronomical. The system for men hasn’t changed for centuries;

1. Suffer young
2. Work relentlessly to earn your place
3. Once you get given y our place take full advantage of the opportunity
4. Rise to the elite levels and enjoy your time at the top
The journey is summed up perfect ly by the following quote from the film Layer Cake;
“You ’re born, you take shit. You  get out in the world, you take more shit. You climb a little
higher, you take less shit. Till one day you're up in the rarefied atmosphere and you've
forgotten what shit even looks like. Welcome to the  layer cake  son”

A man’s life begins at 30 and begins  to peak around mid -30’s. With good health, this peak
continues until around 50 -60. With people living longer, I expect this number to be 60 by
the time many of you reading this reach that age. This is why your teens and 20’s are so key.
They’re seen as yo ur best years, but for a man they’re practice years, almost like pre -season
games before the actual season begins. If you live life in reverse and waste these years, it
becomes very hard to put things right later in life once energy levels diminish and you r
responsibilities increase. Men need to understand that these building years can be
sacrificed. Forget the clubs, alcohol, chasing women and whatever else men do when they
believe they’re in their prime. Give all of that up, work on yourself, your success, fitness etc
for 12 – 18 years and thank yourself from 35 onwards. If you think staying in on a Saturday
night with no date is hard, try being 35 years old with no life prospects, no momentum, no
platform  to build from, in a job you hate, having to start from scratch knowing, that it will be
45 before you see real results. If this is you now, then it can all be turned around, a man’s

===== Page 82 =====

40’s are likely the best years of his life. But you have to work very, ve ry hard and make the
same sacrifices a younger man can do with ease due to extended time.
Remember, a man’s life starts at 30. All of the year’s prior are building years. In reality, a 30 -
year -old man is only 12 years old. You can hardly complain about no t becoming rich at 3
years old, or not having a chest workout in place at 7. Until we hit 18, we’re pretty much
useless. Don’t be too hard on yourself, you’ve only had 12 years to figure this out, and as a
man you’re starting from ground zero. Put in the w ork, be patient, and wait for your life to
click into place. The men who don’t take this advice, will be the 40 -year -old disgruntled
types, who are negative about everything  and full of regret, that’s not a nice place to be in.
It can be fixed, but it’s be tter to avoid  all together.


===== Page 83 =====

Welcome to the Male Advantage

Congratulations, you’re 35 – 37 and you’ve reached peak man. In order to explain the male
advantage, I must show you a couple of statistics;

When do Men Peak?

Learning: 7
Brain power: 18
Testos terone: 18
Coordination: 24
Strength: 25 (Without training)
Cardio/Endurance: 28
Muscle & Bone Mass: 30
Strength: 30 (With training  – Average world’s strongest man  winner  is 30 )
Memory: 32
Attractiveness to Women: 35
Entrepreneur Success: 42
Focus: 43
High est Earnings: 48
Empathy: 51
Vocabulary: 71
Mental Health: 82

If we exclude strength at 25, and make it 30, as I assume everyone reading this book will
either be or begin to lift weights. Then add up all the numbers and divide by how many
there are to find the average we get:

37.2  – This is  the ultimate peak for a man’s life, when he is the closest to all of these peaks
at any given time. This isn’t to say he will reach 37, things will be great, then at 38 he falls
from his perch. Men have a very gradual rising line towards their peak. By  27 he ’s on  equal

===== Page 84 =====

value with women of the same age,  hence the settling down and marriage , by 30 he  enters
the 1st year of the male advantage, by 35 – 37 a man’s value  hits its highest point , by 40
there’s little change, and the peak gradually drops until 50. By 50 he has roughly the same
value he had at 27 due to increased wealth, assets, maturity, but usually decreased
appearance .
You can clearly see from the peaks, that around 30 a man starts to take shape. From 30 to
48 he thoroughly enjoys the best parts of life. He becomes successful, earns the most
money, women find him most attractive, his muscle and bone mass peak and his strength ,
should he be lifting regularly peaks. It would be hard for women not to want this man and
for other men not to respect you here. Between the ages of 18 and 28, we see brain power
and endurance peaking, this is why your teens and 20’s should be spent working as hard as
you can, because your body can take it and your brain is like a sponge. Testosterone is a
tricky one, because it does peak at 18, due to puberty, however,  those levels can be
maintained or even increased based on lifestyle. Many 50 -year -old men have the same T -
levels as 18 -year -old’s as they’re not out drinking 3 days per week and eating a poor diet,
followed by 30 hours per week playing video games. I’m in clined to believe that the data
collected on male peaks include a good range of people. Had the same studies been carried
out on only motivated and discipline men, I’m sure that average would shift closer to 40, or
beyond. If we take another look at Hollyw ood, we can see that the most sought -after  men in
terms of attractiveness  at the time of writing this ; Idris Elba, Ryan Gosling, Jason Statham,
Chris Evans, Brad Pitt, Tom Hardy, Michael B Jordan , Chris Hemsworth , Leonardo DiCaprio
for example have an aver age age of 44-years old. This is what happens when a man takes
care of himself for his entire life , that peaks extends by around 10 years.

35 – 37 – Optimal Partner

A logical conclusion one must draw from the male advantage , the highest possible peak
years and the fact that women find men most attractive at 35 is; It’s likely the best time to
find a partner to settle down and have kids with. It’s a tricky dilemma as taking care of
yourself will extend this peak well into your 40’s. If you’re wealthy, thro w some stem cells
and TRT in there and suddenly a 45 -year -old man can look better than he did at any other
point in his life. However, it’s clear that during this window, starting at 35 and extending up
to 10 years, a man can attract the best quality woman  he is ever going to attract. Here’s
where the men who settled down at 27 realise their mistake. They begin to understand that
men now have the upper -hand and women who were previously off -limits are now chasing
them . Many guys of this age will not experie nce this, as they didn’t put in the ground work
during their teens and 20’s. Therefore,  they cannot expect success, high earning years and
muscle mass to be as exaggerated as a man who hustled. The exceptions to the male
advantage are athletes and music artists, their careers and lives peak in their late 20’s and
never pick back up again. This gives a lot of men a false impression of where they should be
in life when they run a comparison with the latest NBA superstar.

===== Page 85 =====

By choosing a woman at this stage of your life, you can ensure she’s the  highest -level
woman you were ever able to attract. I t simply makes sense, you are at your best in multiple
areas of life, more women are going to want you. This peak, also enables a man to pull off
the unthinkable, dating a much younger woman. As we discussed , this is beneficial for
timeline purposes, women  are around 10 to 15 years ahead of men in terms of peak and life
progression, if you match this gap, you’ll experience a better relationship  that runs parallel
in terms of perceived value.  This helps you avoid a scenario where the beautiful woman you
were  desperate to be with at 21, cannot keep up when you’re both  37. If you’re already in
your peak and she’s still in hers, you both have equal value to offer which increases
happiness and satisfaction.
Alternatively, at this maximum peak stage, you can choos e to sleep with as many beautiful
women as possible. You only get one peak I guess, and if you’re confident of maintaining
your peak for another 10 years, then by all means enjoy yourself. If you do this, just make
sure you’re financially secure and the ad ded distractions will not take you back to square
one.


===== Page 86 =====

29 to 40 is Only 11 Years

This isn’t a kick up the ass to do more, this is an eye -opening statement that questions why
so many men go from their physical peak, to overweight and unhealthy in such a small
window of time. You will constantly he ar men claiming that their beer -belly or diminished
appearance is due to the fact they’re 40, or in their 40’s. But it simply isn’t a valid excuse. A
man should look better at 40 than he did at 29, without a shad ow of a doubt.
If endurance peaks at 28, muscle mass, strength and bone mass at 30, and show little sign of
dropping with regular exercise, there’s no reason why these tools cannot be used to craft an
improved physical state at 40 than the one you went int o 30 with. The same goes for
orthotropics and neck exercises. Yes, the skin may be very slightly looser, yes bones are
harder to change after a certain age, but over 10 years someone can make a great positive
impact. In fact, male skin begins to lose the puffy appearance after 30, creating a more
sculpted bone structure .
Very simply put, if you don’t look better at 40, than you did at 29, something drastically
went wrong, or you were too lazy to work on yourself. Either way, you wasted the best
years o f your life and missed out on the male advantage, something that happens decade
after decade. Men who are supposed to be in their peak, looking terrible, short on cash and
still deploying bad daily habits. They’ll tell others that beyond  30 a man is finish ed, or that
your 20’s are your best years, don’t listen to them. These men are toxic, wasteful and want
everyone else to be as unhappy with their  own  lives as they are.  Being in your peak at 40
when other men are finished, is the compound effect of ground work.


===== Page 87 =====

40-Years -Old – You’re on Your own Champ

By 40, there’s nothing more I can do for you. Of course, you can make changes, turn your
life around etc, this isn’t what I’m saying. The point I’m making is, I cannot hold your hand
any longer. You’re old enough and big enough to now make your own life decisions. If you
want to find a woman get married and have 8 kids, then by all means do it. My job isn’t to
make every decision for you, my job is to get you to the point in your life where you can
make any decision you want.
Former Barcelona manager Pep Guardiola one said in so many words; I can show you how
to pass the ball from the goalkeeper, through the defence, through the midfield and into an
attacking positioning, but scoring goals is up to you.
I fee l very much the same way. I have managed to figure out what I believe is the perfect
step -by-step blueprint for a man’s life , the one that will enable any man to experience the
male advantage to the fullest and thus experience a rewarding life, whilst avoi d all potential
pitfalls.  Once I get you there and we’ve navigated these stormy waters, it’s up to you where
you sail next. Sleep with as many women as possible, party and make up for the years you
missed, get married and become the best Father in the worl d or sail around the world on
your yacht, the options are inexhaustible, but the choice is finally yours. Something no man
can achieve without putting some level of work in. If you want the choice to marry the
woman of your dreams, the system doesn’t chang e. If you want the choice to live in a beach
house and spend every day  tanning, drinking cocktails, the system is the same. You have to
be willing to put in the work, when everyone else is focus ed on enjoying themselves and
living while they’re young. They  ruin the best building years of their life, enter their male
advantage 10 years behind and completely miss the window of opportunity , that enables
men to fulfil the male purpose I spoke about at the start of this book.

Maintain T -levels

If I could leave you with a small piece of useful advice beyond this point, it would be
maintaining your testosterone levels. Testosterone is responsible for regulating high energy
levels, motivation, competitive nature, sex drive, youthful appearance, goo d health,
immunity, low body fat, muscle mass and strength. The longer you maintain your T -levels
the longer the good times can last, and potentially the better they can get. There’s plenty of
60-year -old business men still living life and killing the comp etition due to their ferocity  and
passion for life. The moment your T -levels drop, you begin thinking differently, becoming
lazier, your lust for life disappears and old age finds you quickly. If a man can really start
enjoying life around 30, and have tha t feeling remain until around 60 due to high T -levels,
then it would be hard to have any regrets. A 30-year  peak doesn’t sound like the worst life
anyone’s ever lived.

===== Page 88 =====

Good luck,
Kris (1STMAN Founder)
